TITLE VII—Committee on the Judiciary

subtitle A—Immigration Matters

PART 1—Immigration Fees

SEC. 70001.  Applicability of the immigration laws.

(a) Applicability.—Notwithstanding any provision of the immigration laws (as
defined under section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act), the fees
under this subtitle shall apply.

(b) Terms.—The terms used under this subtitle shall have the meanings given
such terms in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

(c) References to Immigration and Nationality Act.—Except as otherwise
expressly provided, whenever this subtitle references a section or other
provision, the reference shall be considered to be to a section or other
provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

SEC. 70002.  Asylum fee.

(a) In general.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary
of Homeland Security or the Attorney General, as applicable, shall impose a
fee in the amount specified in this section for a fiscal year on each alien
who files an application for asylum under section 208 of the Immigration and
Nationality Act at the time such application is filed.

(b) Initial amount.—The amount specified in this section for fiscal year 2025
shall be such amount as the Secretary or Attorney General, as applicable, may
by rule provide, but in any event not less than $1,000.

(c) Subsequent adjustment.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this section for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(1) the amount imposed under this section for the prior fiscal year; and

(2) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
paragraph (1), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(d) Crediting certain funds.—During any fiscal year, the total amount of fees
received under this section shall be subject to the following:

(1) 50 percent of fees received from applications filed with the Attorney
General shall be credited to the Executive Office for Immigration Review to
retain and spend without further appropriation.

(2) 50 percent of fees received from applications filed with the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall be credited to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services and deposited into the Immigration Examinations Fee Account
established under section 286(m) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ([8
U.S.C.
1356(m)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1356)) to
retain and spend without further appropriation.

(3) Any amounts not credited to the Executive Office for Immigration Review or
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services shall be deposited into the general
fund of the Treasury.

(e) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this section shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70003.  Employment authorization document fees.

(a) Asylum applicants.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall impose on any alien who files an initial
application for employment authorization under section 208(d)(2) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act a fee in the amount specified in this
subsection at the time such initial employment authorization application is
filed. Each initial employment authorization shall be valid for a period of
not more than six months.

(2) INITIAL AMOUNT.— For purposes of this subsection, the amount specified in
this subsection for fiscal year 2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may
by rule provide, but in any event not less than $550.

(3) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount for a fiscal year shall be equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount imposed under this section for the prior fiscal year; and

(B) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
subparagraph (A), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(4) CREDITING OF FUNDS.—25 percent of fees received under this section shall
be credited to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services and deposited into
the Immigration Examinations Fee Account established under section 286(m) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1356(m)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1356)) to
retain and spend without further appropriation, of which 50 percent shall be
used by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to detect and prevent
immigration benefit fraud. Any amounts not credited to U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services under this section shall be deposited into the general
fund of the Treasury.

(5) NO WAIVER.—A fee imposed under this subsection shall not be waived or
reduced.

(b) Parole.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall impose on any alien paroled into the United States
a fee for any initial application for employment authorization in an amount
specified in this subsection at the time such initial application is filed.
Each initial employment authorization shall be valid for a period of not more
than six months.

(2) INITIAL AMOUNT.—For purposes of this subsection, the amount specified in
this subsection for fiscal year 2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may
by rule provide, but in any event not less than $550.

(3) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(B) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
subparagraph (A), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(4) CREDITING OF FUNDS.—The fees received under this section shall be
deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.

(5) NO WAIVER.—A fee imposed under this subsection shall not be waived or
reduced.

(c) Temporary protected status.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, for any alien
who files an initial application for employment authorization under section
244(a)(1)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall impose a fee in an amount specified in this subsection at the
time such initial application is filed. Each initial employment authorization
shall be valid for a period of not more than six months.

(2) INITIAL AMOUNT.—For purposes of this subsection, the amount specified in
this subsection for fiscal year 2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may
by rule provide, but in any event not less than $550.

(3) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(B) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
subparagraph (A), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(4) CREDITING OF CERTAIN FUNDS.—The fees received under this section shall be
deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.

(5) NO WAIVER.—A fee imposed under this subsection shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70004.  Parole fee.

(a) In general.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall impose a fee in an amount specified in this section
on each alien who is paroled into the United States, except if, as established
by the alien, the alien is paroled because—

(1) the alien has a medical emergency, and—

(A) the alien cannot obtain necessary treatment in the foreign state in which
the alien is residing; or

(B) the medical emergency is life-threatening and there is insufficient time
for the alien to be admitted to the United States through the normal visa
process;

(2) the alien is the parent or legal guardian of an alien described in
paragraph (1) and the alien described in paragraph (1) is a minor;

(3) the alien is needed in the United States to donate an organ or other
tissue for transplant and there is insufficient time for the alien to be
admitted to the United States through the normal visa process;

(4) the alien has a close family member in the United States whose death is
imminent and the alien could not arrive in the United States in time to see
such family member alive if the alien were to be admitted to the United States
through the normal visa process;

(5) the alien is seeking to attend the funeral of a close family member and
the alien could not arrive in the United States in time to attend such funeral
if the alien were to be admitted to the United States through the normal visa
process;

(6) the alien is an adopted child with an urgent medical condition who is in
the legal custody of the petitioner for a final adoption-related visa and
whose medical treatment is required before the expected award of a final
adoption-related visa;

(7) the alien is a lawful applicant for adjustment of status under section 245
of the Immigration and Nationality Act and is returning to the United States
after temporary travel abroad;

(8) the alien is returned to a contiguous country under section 235(b)(2)(C)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act and paroled into the United States to
allow the alien to attend the alien’s immigration hearing;

(9) the alien—

(A) is a national of the Republic of Cuba and is living in the Republic of
Cuba;

(B) is the beneficiary of an approved petition under section 203(a) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act;

(C) is an alien for whom an immigrant visa is not immediately available;

(D) meets all eligibility requirements for an immigrant visa;

(E) is not otherwise inadmissible; and

(F) is receiving a grant of parole in furtherance of the commitment of the
United States to the minimum level of annual legal migration of Cuban
nationals to the United States specified in the U.S.-Cuba Joint Communiqué on
Migration, done at New York September 9, 1994, and reaffirmed in the Cuba-
United States: Joint Statement on Normalization of Migration, Building on the
Agreement of September 9, 1994, done at New York May 2, 1995; or

(10) the Secretary of Homeland Security determines that a significant public
benefit has resulted or will result from the parole of an alien only if—

(A) the alien has assisted or will assist the United States Government in a
law enforcement matter;

(B) the alien’s presence is required by the Government in furtherance of such
law enforcement matter; and

(C) the alien is inadmissible, does not satisfy the eligibility requirements
for admission as a nonimmigrant, or there is insufficient time for the alien
to be admitted to the United States through the normal visa process.

(b) Initial amount.—For purposes of this section, the amount specified in this
subsection for fiscal year 2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may by
rule provide, but in any event not less than $1,000.

(c) Subsequent adjustment.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this section for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(1) the amount imposed under this section for the prior fiscal year; and

(2) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
paragraph (1), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(d) Crediting of funds.—Fees received under this section shall be deposited in
the general fund of the Treasury.

(e) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this section shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70005.  Special immigrant juvenile fee.

(a) In general.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall impose a fee in an amount specified in this section
on any alien applying for special immigrant juvenile status under section
101(a)(27)(J) of the Immigration and Nationality Act if reunification with 1
parent or legal guardian is viable, notwithstanding abuse, neglect,
abandonment, or a similar basis found under State law making reunification
with the other parent or legal guardian not viable.

(b) Initial amount.—For purposes of this subsection, the amount specified in
this section for fiscal year 2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may by
rule provide, but in any event not less than $500.

(c) Subsequent adjustment.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this section for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(1) the amount imposed under this section for the prior fiscal year; and

(2) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
paragraph (1), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(d) Crediting of funds.—Fees received under this section shall be deposited in
the general fund of the Treasury.

(e) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this section shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70006.  Temporary protected status fee.

(a) In general.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall impose a fee in an amount specified in this section
for the consideration of an application for temporary protected status under
section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act on any alien who—

(1) has not been admitted into the United States; or

(2) has been admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant but at the time
of application for temporary protected status has failed—

(A) to maintain or extend the nonimmigrant status in which the alien was
admitted or to which the status was changed under section 248 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act, including complying with the period of stay
authorized by the Secretary of Homeland Security in connection with such
status; or

(B) to comply with the conditions of such nonimmigrant status.

(b) Initial amount.—For purposes of this subsection, the amount specified in
this section for fiscal year 2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may by
rule provide, but in any event not less than $500.

(c) Subsequent adjustment.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this section for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(1) the amount imposed under this section for the prior fiscal year; and

(2) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
paragraph (1), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(d) Crediting of funds.—Fees received under this section shall be deposited in
the general fund of the Treasury.

(e) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this section shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70007.  Unaccompanied alien child sponsor fee.

(a) In general.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, before placing
the child with an individual under section 235(c) of the William Wilberforce
Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services shall collect from that individual a fee in an
amount specified in this section as partial reimbursement to the Federal
Government for the period during which the child was in the custody of the
Government, for processing, housing, feeding, educating, transporting, and
otherwise providing for the care of the child.

(b) Initial amount.—For purposes of this subsection, the amount specified in
this section for fiscal year 2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may by
rule provide, but in any event not less than $3,500.

(c) Subsequent adjustment.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this section for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(1) the amount imposed under this section for the prior fiscal year; and

(2) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
paragraph (1), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(d) Crediting of funds.—During any fiscal year, the total amount of fees
received under this section shall be subject to the following:

(1) 25 percent of fees received under this section shall be credited to the
Department of Health and Human Services to retain and spend without further
appropriation and shall be used for the purpose of conducting background
checks of potential sponsors of unaccompanied alien children and of adults
residing in potential sponsors’ households, which shall include, at a minimum—

(A) the name of the individual and all adult residents of the individual’s
household;

(B) the social security number of the individual and all adult residents of
the individual’s household;

(C) the date of birth of the individual and all adult residents of the
individual’s household;

(D) the validated location of the individual’s residence where the child will
be placed;

(E) the immigration status of the individual and all adult residents of the
individual’s household;

(F) contact information for the individual and all adult residents of the
individual’s household; and

(G) the results of all background and criminal records checks for the
individual and all adult residents of the individual’s household, which shall
include at a minimum an investigation of the public records sex offender
registry, a public records background check, and a national criminal history
check based on fingerprints.

(2) Any amounts not credited to the Department of Health and Human Services
shall be deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.

(e) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this section shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70008.  Visa integrity fee.

(a) Visa integrity Fee.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall impose a fee in an amount specified in this
subsection on each alien issued a nonimmigrant visa upon the issuance of such
alien’s nonimmigrant visa.

(2) INITIAL AMOUNT.—For purposes of this subsection, the amount specified in
this subsection for fiscal year 2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may
by rule provide, but in any event not less than $250.

(3) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount imposed under this section for the prior fiscal year; and

(B) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $1, the amount referred to in
subparagraph (A), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(4) CREDITING OF FUNDS.—The fees received under this subsection that are not
reimbursed in accordance with subsection (b) shall be deposited in the general
fund of the Treasury.

(5) NO WAIVER.—A fee imposed under this subsection shall not be waived or
reduced.

(b) Fee Reimbursement.—The Secretary of Homeland Security may reimburse to an
alien a fee imposed under this section on that alien for the issuance of a
nonimmigrant visa after the expiration of such nonimmigrant visa’s period of
validity if the alien demonstrates that—

(1) the alien has not sought admission during such period of validity;

(2) the alien, after admission to the United States pursuant to such
nonimmigrant visa, complied with all conditions of such nonimmigrant visa,
including the condition that an alien shall not accept unauthorized
employment, and that the alien departed the United States not later than 5
days after the date on which the alien was authorized to remain in the United
States; or

(3) the alien filed to extend, change, or adjust such status within the
nonimmigrant visa’s period of validity.

SEC. 70009. Form I–94 fee.

(a) Fee authorized.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall impose a fee in an amount specified in
subsection (b) on any alien upon the alien’s application for a Form I–94
Arrival/Departure Record.

(b) Fee specified.—

(1) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may by rule provide, but in any
event not less than $24.

(2) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount imposed under this section for the prior fiscal year; and

(B) the amount referred to in subparagraph (A), multiplied by the percentage
(if any) by which the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the
month of July preceding the date on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds
the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the same month of the
preceding calendar year.

(c) Crediting of funds.—During any fiscal year, the total amount of fees
received under this section shall be subject to the following:

(1) 20 percent of the fee collected under this section for each application
shall be deposited pursuant to section 286(q)(2) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1356(q)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1356))
and made available to U.S. Customs and Border Protection to retain and spend
without further appropriation for the purpose of processing Form I–94.

(2) Any amounts not credited to U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall be
deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.

(d) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this section shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70010. Yearly asylum fee.

(a) Fee authorized.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, for each
calendar year that an alien’s application for asylum remains pending, the
Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General, as applicable, shall
impose a fee in an amount specified in subsection (b) on that alien.

(b) Fee specified.—

(1) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary and the Attorney General may by
rule provide, but in any event not less than $100.

(2) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount imposed under this section for the prior fiscal year; and

(B) the amount referred to in subparagraph (A), multiplied by the percentage
(if any) by which the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the
month of July preceding the date on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds
the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the same month of the
preceding calendar year.

(c) Crediting of funds.—The fees received under this section shall be
deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.

(d) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this section shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70011. Fee for continuances granted in immigration court proceedings.

(a) In general.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Attorney
General shall impose a fee in an amount specified in subsection (b) on any
alien who requests and is granted a continuance by an immigration judge for
each such continuance.

(b) Fee specified.—

(1) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Attorney General may by rule provide, but in
any event not less than $100.

(2) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount imposed under this section for the prior fiscal year; and

(B) the amount referred to in subparagraph (A), multiplied by the percentage
(if any) by which the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the
month of July preceding the date on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds
the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the same month of the
preceding calendar year.

(c) Crediting of certain funds.—Amounts received as fees under this section
shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.

(d) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this section shall not be waived or
reduced, except no fee shall be imposed on any alien whose request for a
continuance is granted based on exceptional circumstances (as such term is
defined in section 240 of the Immigration and Nationality Act).

SEC. 70012. Fee relating to renewal and extension of employment authorization
for parolees.

(a) Fee imposed.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, for a parolee
who seeks a renewal or extension of employment authorization based on a grant
of parole, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall impose a fee in an amount
specified in subsection (b).

(b) Fee specified.—

(1) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may by rule provide, but in any
event not less than $550.

(2) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(B) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
subparagraph (A), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(c) In general.—The employment authorization for any alien paroled into the
United States, or any renewal or extension thereof, shall be valid for a
period of not more than six months.

(d) Crediting of funds.—The fees received under this section shall be
deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.

(e) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this subsection shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70013. Fee relating to termination, renewal, and extension of employment
authorization for asylum applicants.

(a) Fee imposed.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, for any alien
who applies for asylum and who seeks a renewal or extension of employment
authorization based on such application, the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall impose a fee of not less than $550 for each such renewal or extension,
in accordance with subsection (b).

(b) Employment authorization.—The Secretary of Homeland Security may provide
employment authorization to an applicant for asylum for a period of not more
than six months. Each renewal or extension thereof shall also be valid for a
period of not more than six months.

(c) Termination.—Each initial employment authorization, or renewal or
extension of such authorization, shall terminate as follows:

(1) Immediately following the denial of an asylum application by an asylum
officer, unless the case is referred to an immigration judge.

(2) On the date that is 30 days after the date on which an immigration judge
denies an asylum application, unless the alien makes a timely appeal to the
Board of Immigration Appeals.

(3) Immediately following the denial by the Board of Immigration Appeals of an
appeal of a denial of an asylum application.

(d) Prohibition.—The Secretary of Homeland Security shall not grant, renew, or
extend employment authorization to an alien if the alien was previously
granted employment authorization as an applicant for asylum and the employment
authorization was terminated pursuant to a circumstance described in
subsection (c), unless a Federal Court of Appeals remands the alien’s case to
the Board of Immigration Appeals.

(e) Crediting of funds.—The total amount of fees received under this section
shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.

(f) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this subsection shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70014. Fee relating to renewal and extension of employment authorization
for aliens granted temporary protected status.

(a) Fee imposed.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, for any alien
who seeks a renewal or extension of employment authorization based on a grant
of temporary protected status, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall impose
a fee in an amount specified in subsection (b) at the time of each such
renewal or extension.

(b) Fee specified.—

(1) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may by rule provide, but in any
event not less than $550.

(2) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(B) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
subparagraph (A), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(c) Employment authorization.—Any employment authorization for an alien
granted temporary protected status, or any renewal or extension thereof, shall
be valid for a period of not more than six months.

(d) Crediting of funds.—The fees received under this section shall be
deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.

(e) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this subsection shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70015.  Diversity immigrant visa fees.

(a) Fee for filing a diversity immigrant visa application.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall impose a fee on any alien who files an application
for a diversity immigrant visa as described in section 203(c) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1153(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1153)),
in the amount specified in this subsection at the time such application is
filed.

(2) FEE SPECIFIED.—

(A) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may by rule provide, but in any
event not less than $400.

(B) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(i) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(ii) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
clause (i), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on
which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(b) Fee for aliens who register for the diversity immigrant visa program.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall impose a fee on any alien who registers for the
diversity immigrant visa program, as described in section 203(c) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1153(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1153)),
in the amount specified in this subsection at the time of registration.

(2) FEE SPECIFIED.—

(A) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may by rule provide, but in any
event not less than $250.

(B) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(i) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(ii) the amount referred to in clause (i), multiplied by the percentage (if
any) by which the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month
of July preceding the date on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the
Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the same month of the
preceding calendar year.

(c) Funds.—During any fiscal year, the total amount of fees received under
this section shall be subject to the following:

(1) 10 percent of fees received shall be used to detect and prevent fraud in
the diversity immigrant visa program and to offset costs associated with such
program.

(2) 10 percent of fees received shall be credited to U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement to retain and spend without further appropriation for the
purpose of detention and immigration enforcement and removal operations.

(3) Any amounts not used or credited under this subsection shall be deposited
into the general fund of the Treasury.

(d) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this section shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70016. EOIR fees.

(a) Fee for filing an application to adjust status to that of a lawful
permanent resident.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fees authorized by law, the Attorney
General shall impose on any alien who files with an immigration court an
application to adjust the alien’s status to that of a lawful permanent
resident, or whose application to adjust status to that of a lawful permanent
resident is adjudicated in immigration court, a fee in the amount specified in
this subsection at the time such application is filed, or, as applicable,
prior to the adjudication of such application in immigration court.

(2) FEE SPECIFIED.—

(A) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Attorney General may by rule provide, but in
any event not less than $1,500.

(B) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(i) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(ii) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
clause (i), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on
which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(3) CREDITING CERTAIN FUNDS.—During any fiscal year, not more than 50 percent
of the total amount of fees received under this section shall be derived by
transfer from the Immigration Examinations Fee Account under section 286(n) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act and credited to the Executive Office for
Immigration Review to retain and spend without further appropriation. Any
amounts not credited under the previous sentence shall be deposited into the
general fund of the Treasury.

(b) Fee for filing an application for waiver of grounds of inadmissibility.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fees authorized by law, the Attorney
General shall impose on any alien who files with an immigration court an
application for waiver of grounds of inadmissibility, or whose application for
waiver of grounds of inadmissibility is adjudicated in immigration court, a
fee in the amount specified in this subsection at the time such application is
filed, or, as applicable, prior to the adjudication of such application in
immigration court.

(2) FEE SPECIFIED.—

(A) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Attorney General may by rule provide, but in
any event not less than $1,050.

(B) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(i) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(ii) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
clause (i), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on
which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(3) CREDITING CERTAIN FUNDS.—During any fiscal year, not more than 25 percent
of the total amount of fees received under this section shall be derived by
transfer from the Immigration Examinations Fee Account under section 286(n) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act and credited to the Executive Office for
Immigration Review to retain and spend without further appropriation. Any
amounts not credited under the previous sentence shall be deposited into the
general fund of the Treasury.

(c) Fee for filing an application for temporary protected status.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fees authorized by law, the Attorney
General shall impose on any alien who files with an immigration court an
application for temporary protected status, or whose application for temporary
protected status is adjudicated in immigration court, a fee in the amount
specified in this subsection at the time such application is filed or, as
applicable, prior to the adjudication of such application in immigration
court.

(2) FEE SPECIFIED.—

(A) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Attorney General may by rule provide, but in
any event not less than $500.

(B) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(i) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(ii) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
clause (i), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on
which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(3) CREDITING CERTAIN FUNDS.—During any fiscal year, not more than 25 percent
of the total amount of fees received under this section shall be derived by
transfer from the Immigration Examinations Fee Account under section 286(n) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act and credited to the Executive Office for
Immigration Review to retain and spend without further appropriation. Any
amounts not credited under the previous sentence shall be deposited into the
general fund of the Treasury.

(d) Fee for filing an appeal from a decision of an immigration judge.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fees authorized by law, the Attorney
General shall impose on any alien who files any appeal from a decision of an
immigration judge a fee in the amount specified in this subsection at the time
such appeal is filed.

(2) FEE SPECIFIED.—

(A) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Attorney General may by rule provide, but in
any event not less than $900.

(B) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(i) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(ii) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
clause (i), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on
which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(3) EXCEPTION.—The fee described in this section shall not apply to the appeal
of a bond decision.

(4) CREDITING CERTAIN FUNDS.—During any fiscal year, not more than 25 percent
of the total amount of fees received under this section shall be derived by
transfer from the Immigration Examinations Fee Account under section 286(n) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act and credited to the Executive Office for
Immigration Review to retain and spend without further appropriation. Any
amounts not credited under the previous sentence shall be deposited into the
general fund of the Treasury.

(e) Fee for filing an appeal from a decision of an officer of the department
of homeland security.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fees authorized by law, the Attorney
General shall impose on any alien who files an appeal from a decision of an
officer of the Department of Homeland Security a fee in the amount specified
in this subsection at the time such appeal is filed.

(2) FEE SPECIFIED.—

(A) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Attorney General may by rule provide, but in
any event not less than $900.

(B) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(i) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(ii) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
clause (i), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on
which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(3) CREDITING CERTAIN FUNDS.—During any fiscal year, not more than 25 percent
of the total amount of fees received under this section shall be derived by
transfer from the Immigration Examinations Fee Account under section 286(n) of
Immigration and Nationality and credited to the Executive Office for
Immigration Review to retain and spend without further appropriation. Any
amounts not credited under the previous sentence shall be deposited into the
general fund of the Treasury.

(f) Fee for filing an appeal from a decision of an adjudicating official in a
practitioner disciplinary case.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fees authorized by law, the Attorney
General shall impose on any practitioner who files an appeal from a decision
of an adjudicating official in a practitioner disciplinary case a fee in the
amount specified in this subsection at the time such appeal is filed.

(2) FEE SPECIFIED.—

(A) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Attorney General may by rule provide, but in
any event not less than $1,325.

(B) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(i) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(ii) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
clause (i), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on
which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(3) CREDITING CERTAIN FUNDS.—During any fiscal year, not more than 25 percent
of the total amount of fees received under this section shall be derived by
transfer from the Immigration Examinations Fee Account under section 286(n) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act and credited to the Executive Office for
Immigration Review to retain and spend without further appropriation. Any
amounts not credited under the previous sentence shall be deposited into the
general fund of the Treasury.

(g) Fee for filing a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fees authorized by law, the Attorney
General shall impose on any alien who files a motion to reopen or motion to
reconsider a decision of an immigration judge or the Board of Immigration
Appeals a fee in the amount specified in this subsection at the time such
motion is filed.

(2) FEE SPECIFIED.—

(A) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Attorney General may by rule provide, but in
any event not less than $900.

(B) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(i) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(ii) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
clause (i), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on
which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(3) EXCEPTIONS.—The fee described in this section shall not apply to any
motion that is:

(A) a motion to reopen a removal order entered in absentia if the motion is
filed under section 240(b)(5)(C)(ii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act;
or

(B) a motion to reopen a deportation order entered in absentia if the motion
is filed under section 242B(c)(3)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act,
as the section existed prior to April 1, 1997.

(4) CREDITING CERTAIN FUNDS.—During any fiscal year, not more than 25 percent
of the total amount of fees received under this section shall be derived by
transfer from the Immigration Examinations Fee Account under section 286(n) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act and credited to the Executive Office for
Immigration Review to retain and spend without further appropriation. Any
amounts not credited under the previous sentence shall be deposited into the
general fund of the Treasury.

(h) Fee for filing an application for suspension of deportation.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fees authorized by law, the Attorney
General shall impose on any alien who files with an immigration court an
application for suspension of deportation a fee in the amount specified in
this subsection at the time such application is filed.

(2) FEE SPECIFIED.—

(A) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Attorney General may by rule provide, but in
any event not less than $600.

(B) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(i) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(ii) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
clause (i), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on
which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(3) CREDITING CERTAIN FUNDS.—During any fiscal year, not more than 25 percent
of the total amount of fees received under this section shall be derived by
transfer from the Immigration Examinations Fee Account under section 286(n) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act and credited to the Executive Office for
Immigration Review to retain and spend without further appropriation. Any
amounts not credited under the previous sentence shall be deposited into the
general fund of the Treasury.

(i) Fee for filing an application for cancellation of removal for certain
permanent residents.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fees authorized by law, the Attorney
General shall impose on any alien who files with an immigration court an
application for cancellation of removal for certain permanent residents a fee
in the amount specified in this subsection at the time such application is
filed.

(2) FEE SPECIFIED.—

(A) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Attorney General may by rule provide, but in
any event not less than $600.

(B) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(i) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(ii) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
clause (i), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on
which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(3) CREDITING CERTAIN FUNDS.—During any fiscal year, not more than 25 percent
of the total amount of fees received under this section shall be derived by
transfer from the Immigration Examinations Fee Account under section 286(n) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act and credited to the Executive Office for
Immigration Review to retain and spend without further appropriation. Any
amounts not credited under the previous sentence shall be deposited into the
general fund of the Treasury.

(j) Fee for filing an application for cancellation of removal and adjustment
of status for certain nonpermanent residents.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fees authorized by law, the Attorney
General shall impose on any alien who files with an immigration court an
application for cancellation of removal and adjustment of status for certain
nonpermanent residents a fee in the amount specified in this subsection at the
time such application is filed.

(2) FEE SPECIFIED.—

(A) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Attorney General may by rule provide, but in
any event not less than $1,500.

(B) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(i) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(ii) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
clause (i), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on
which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(3) CREDITING CERTAIN FUNDS.—During any fiscal year, not more than 25 percent
of the total amount of fees received under this section shall be derived by
transfer from the Immigration Examinations Fee Account under section 286(n) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act and credited to the Executive Office for
Immigration Review to retain and spend without further appropriation. Any
amounts not credited under the previous sentence shall be deposited into the
general fund of the Treasury.

(k) No waiver.—Any fee imposed under this section shall not be waived or
reduced.

(l) Condition on funds.—No fees received under this section shall be used to
fund the Legal Orientation Program or any successor program.

SEC. 70017. ESTA fee.

Section 217(h)(3)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1187(h)(3)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1187))
is amended—

(1) in clause (i)—

(A) in subclause (I), by striking “and” at the end;

(B) in subclause (II)—

(i) by inserting after “an amount” the following “of not less than $10”; and

(ii) by striking the period at the end and inserting “; and”; and

(C) by adding at the end the following:

“(III) not less than $13.”;

(2) in clause (ii)—

(A) by striking “Amounts collected under clause (i)(I)” and inserting the
following:

“(I) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts collected under clause (i)(I) during a fiscal
year, not more than $20,000,000”;

(B) by inserting before the period at the end of the first sentence the
following: “, and the remainder of the amounts collected under clause (i)(I)
shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury”; and

(C) by inserting after “to pay the costs incurred to administer the System.”
the following: “Amounts collected under clause (i)(III) shall be deposited in
the general fund of the Treasury.”;

(3) in clause (iii), by striking “2028” and inserting “2034”; and

(4) by adding at the end the following:

“(iv) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal
year thereafter, the amount specified in clause (i)(II) for a fiscal year
shall be equal to the sum of—

“(I) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

“(II) the amount referred to in subclause (I), multiplied by the percentage
(if any) by which the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the
month of July preceding the date on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds
the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the same month of the
preceding calendar year.”.

SEC. 70018. Immigration user fees.

Section 286 of the Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1356](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1356)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (d)—

(A) by striking “In addition to any other fee” and inserting the following:

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other fee”;

(B) by inserting “and except as provided in subsection (e),” before “the
Attorney General shall charge and collect”;

(C) by striking “$7” and inserting “a fee in an amount specified in paragraph
(2)”; and

(D) by adding at the end the following:

“(2) INITIAL AMOUNT.—For purposes of this section, the amount specified in
this section for fiscal year 2025 shall be not less than $10.

“(3) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

“(A) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

“(B) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $0.25, the amount referred to in
subparagraph (A), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

“(4) CREDITING OF AMOUNTS.—Of amounts collected under this subsection $1 per
individual for immigration inspection or preinspection as described in this
subsection shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.

“(5) NO WAIVER.—A fee imposed under this subsection shall not be waived or
reduced.”; and

(2) in subsection (e)—

(A) by striking paragraph (1);

(B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (1) and (2); and

(C) in paragraph (2) (as redesignated by subparagraph (B) above), by striking
“The Attorney General shall charge” and all that follows through “this
requirement shall not apply to” and inserting the following: “No fee shall be
charged under subsection (d) for”.

SEC. 70019.  EVUS fee.

(a) In general.— In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall impose on any alien subject to the Electronic Visa
Update System a fee in the amount specified in this section at the time of
such alien’s enrollment in the Electronic Visa Update System.

(b) Amount.—For purposes of this section, the amount specified in this section
for fiscal year 2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may by rule
provide, but in any event not less than $30.

(c) Subsequent adjustment.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this section for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(1) the amount imposed under this section for the prior fiscal year; and

(2) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $0.25, the amount referred to in
paragraph (1), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(d) Crediting of funds.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The fees received under this section shall be deposited into
the CBP Electronic Visa Update System Account, less $5 per enrollment which
shall be deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.

(2) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United
States a separate account which shall be known as the “CBP Electronic Visa
Update System Account”.

(3) APPROPRIATION.— Amounts deposited in the CBP Electronic Visa Update System
Account are hereby appropriated to make payments and offset program costs as
specified in this section without further appropriation necessary and shall
remain available until expended for any U.S. Customs and Border Protection
costs associated with administering the Electronic Visa Update System.

(e) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this section shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70020.  Fee for sponsor of unaccompanied alien child who fails to appear
in immigration court.

(a) Fee imposed.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, for the
sponsor of an unaccompanied alien child, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services shall impose a fee in an amount specified in subsection (b) prior to
the unaccompanied alien child’s release to such sponsor.

(b) Fee specified.—

(1) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may by rule provide, but in any
event not less than $5,000.

(2) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(B) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
subparagraph (A), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(c) Fee reimbursement.—At the conclusion of an unaccompanied alien child’s
immigration court proceedings as an unaccompanied alien child, or upon the
ending of such sponsor’s sponsorship of such unaccompanied alien child, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services may reimburse to a sponsor a fee
imposed under this section if such sponsor demonstrates that the unaccompanied
alien child in the care of such sponsor was not ordered removed in absentia
under section 240(b)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. In the case of
a sponsor of an unaccompanied alien child who was ordered removed in absentia
and such order was rescinded under section 240(b)(5)(C) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act, the sponsor may seek reimbursement of the fee under this
section.

(d) Crediting of funds.—The fees received under this section shall be
deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.

(e) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this subsection shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70021.  Fee for aliens ordered removed in absentia.

(a) In general .—As partial reimbursement for the cost of arresting an alien
described in this section, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall impose a
fee in an amount specified in this section on any alien who—

(1) is ordered removed in absentia under section 240(b)(5) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1229a(b)(5)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1229a));
and

(2) is subsequently arrested by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

(b) Initial amount.—For purposes of this subsection, the amount specified in
this subsection for fiscal year 2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may
by rule provide, but in any event not less than $5,000.

(c) Subsequent adjustment.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount for a fiscal year shall be equal to the sum of—

(1) the amount imposed under this section for the prior fiscal year; and

(2) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
paragraph (1), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(d) Crediting of funds.—The fees received under this section shall be
deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.

(e) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this subsection shall not be waived or
reduced.

(f) Exception.—The fee described in this section shall not apply to any alien
who was ordered removed in absentia if such order was rescinded under section
240(b)(5)(C) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

SEC. 70022.  Customs and Border Protection inadmissible alien apprehension
fee.

(a) Fee imposed.—In addition to any other fee authorized by law, for any
inadmissible alien who is apprehended between ports of entry by U.S. Customs
and Border Protection, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall impose a fee
in an amount specified in subsection (b) at the time of such apprehension.

(b) Fee specified.—

(1) INITIAL AMOUNT.—The amount specified in this subsection for fiscal year
2025 shall be such amount as the Secretary may by rule provide, but in any
event not less than $5,000.

(2) SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT.—Beginning in fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amount specified in this subsection for a fiscal year shall be
equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount imposed under this subsection for the prior fiscal year; and

(B) rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10, the amount referred to in
subparagraph (A), multiplied by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date
on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year.

(c) Crediting of funds.—The fees received under this section shall be
deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.

(d) No waiver.—A fee imposed under this section shall not be waived or
reduced.

SEC. 70023.  Amendment to authority to apply for asylum.

Section 208(d)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1158(d)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1158))
is amended—

(1) in the first sentence, by striking “may” and inserting “shall”;

(2) by striking “Such fees shall not exceed” and all that follows; and

(3) by inserting after the first sentence “Nothing in this paragraph shall be
construed to limit the authority of the Attorney General to set additional
adjudication and naturalization fees in accordance with section 286(m).”.

PART 2—Use of Funds

SEC. 70100. Executive Office for Immigration Review.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Executive Office for Immigration Review for fiscal year
2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
$1,250,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes
described in subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for purposes of—

(1) hiring the support staff necessary to support immigration judges;

(2) hiring immigration judges; and

(3) expanding courtroom capacity and infrastructure.

SEC. 70101. Adult alien detention capacity and family residential centers.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for fiscal year 2025,
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $45,000,000,000
to remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for family residential center capacity and single adult alien detention
capacity.

(c) Duration.—The Department of Homeland Security may detain family units of
aliens at family residential centers, as described in subsections (b) and (d),
pending a decision on whether the aliens are to be removed from the United
States and, if such aliens are ordered removed from the United States, until
such aliens are removed.

(d) Family residential center defined.—In this section, the term “family
residential center” means a facility used by the Department of Homeland
Security to detain family units of aliens (including alien children who are
not unaccompanied alien children) who are encountered or apprehended by the
Department of Homeland Security, regardless of whether the facility is
licensed by the State or a political subdivision of the State in which the
facility is located.

(e) Detention standards.—To efficiently utilize the funding appropriated by
this section, the detention standards for the single adult detention capacity
described in subsection (b) shall be set in the sole discretion of the
Secretary of Homeland Security.

SEC. 70102. Retention and signing bonuses for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement personnel.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for fiscal year 2025,
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $858,000,000 to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsections (b) and (c).

(b) Retention bonuses.—U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement may provide
retention bonuses to any U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent,
officer, or attorney who commits to two years of additional service with U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement to carry out immigration enforcement.

(c) Signing bonuses.—U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement shall provide a
signing bonus to each U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent, officer,
or attorney who is hired on or after the date of enactment of this Act and who
commits to five years of service with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
to carry out immigration enforcement.

(d) Rules for bonuses.—U.S. Customs and Immigration Enforcement shall provide
qualifying individuals with written service agreements that include—

(1) the commencement and termination dates of the required service period (or
provisions for the determination thereof);

(2) the amount of the bonus; and

(3) other terms and conditions under which the bonus is payable, subject to
the requirements of this subsection, including—

(A) the conditions under which the agreement may be terminated before the
agreed-upon service period has been completed; and

(B) the effect of a termination described in subparagraph (A).

SEC. 70103. Hiring of additional U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
personnel.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for fiscal year 2025,
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $8,000,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used to hire additional personnel of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
including officers, agents, and support staff, to carry out immigration
enforcement, and to prioritize and streamline the hiring of retired U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement personnel. There shall be a minimum of—

(1) 2,500 individuals hired in fiscal year 2025;

(2) 1,875 individuals hired in 2026;

(3) 1,875 individuals hired in 2027;

(4) 1,875 individuals hired in 2028; and

(5) 1,875 individuals hired in 2029.

SEC. 70104.  U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement hiring capability.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for fiscal year 2025,
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $600,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purpose described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of Funds.—The funds made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for the purpose of facilitating the recruitment, hiring, and onboarding
of additional U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement personnel to carry out
immigration enforcement, including by investments in information technology,
recruitment, marketing, and staff necessary for such activities.

SEC. 70105.  Transportation and removal operations.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for fiscal year 2025,
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $14,400,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for transportation and removal operations and for ensuring the departure
of aliens.

SEC. 70106.  Information technology investments.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for fiscal year 2025,
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $700,000,000 to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement information technology
investments to support enforcement and removal operations, including to
streamline fine and penalty collections.

SEC. 70107.  Facilities upgrades.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for fiscal year 2025,
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $550,000,000 to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility upgrades to support
enforcement and removal operations.

SEC. 70108.  Fleet modernization.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for fiscal year 2025,
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $250,000,000 to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement fleet modernization to
support enforcement and removal operations.

SEC. 70109. Promoting family unity.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for fiscal year 2025,
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $20,000,000 to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—The funds made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used to—

(1) maintain the care and custody, during the period in which the charges
described in subparagraph (A) are pending, of an alien who—

(A) is charged only with a misdemeanor offense under section 275(a) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1325(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1325));
and

(B) entered the United States with the alien’s child who has not attained 18
years of age; and

(2) detain the alien with the alien’s child.

SEC. 70110.  Funding section 287(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for fiscal year
2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
$650,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes
described in subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—The amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only
be used for purposes of facilitating and implementing agreements under section
287(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1357(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1357)).

SEC. 70111.  Compensation for incarceration of criminal aliens.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Department of Justice for fiscal year 2025, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $950,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in subsection
(b).

(b) Use of funds.—The amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only
be used to compensate a State or political subdivision of a State, as may be
appropriate, with respect to the incarceration of any alien who—

(1) has been convicted of a felony or two or more misdemeanors; and

(2) (A) entered the United States without inspection or at any time or place
other than as designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security;

(B) was the subject of removal proceedings at the time he or she was taken
into custody by the State or a political subdivision of the State; or

(C) was admitted as a nonimmigrant and, at the time he or she was taken into
custody by the State or a political subdivision of the State, has failed to
maintain the nonimmigrant status in which the alien was admitted, or to which
it was changed, or to comply with the conditions of any such status.

(c) Limitation.—The amounts made available under subsection (a) shall not be
used to compensate any State or political subdivision of the State if the
State or political subdivision of the State prohibits or in any way restricts
a Federal, State, or local government entity, official, or other personnel
from any of the following:

(1) Complying with the immigration laws (as defined in section 101(a)(17) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(17)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1101)).

(2) Assisting or cooperating with Federal law enforcement entities, officials,
or other personnel regarding the enforcement of the immigration laws.

(3) Undertaking any one of the following law enforcement activities as they
relate to information regarding the citizenship or immigration status, lawful
or unlawful, the inadmissibility or deportability, and the custody status, of
any individual:

(A) Making inquiries to any individual to obtain such information regarding
such individual or any other individuals.

(B) Notifying the Federal Government regarding the presence of individuals who
are encountered by law enforcement officials or other personnel of a State or
political subdivision of a State.

(C) Complying with requests for such information from Federal law enforcement
entities, officials, or other personnel.

SEC. 70112. Office of the Principal Legal Advisor.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for fiscal year 2025,
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,320,000,000 to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for purposes of hiring additional support staff and attorneys within the
Office of the Principal Legal Advisor to represent the Department of Homeland
Security in removal proceedings.

SEC. 70113. Return of aliens arriving from contiguous territory.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2025, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $500,000,000 to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—The funds made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for purposes of return of aliens under section 235(b)(2)(C) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1225(b)(2)(C)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1225)).

SEC. 70114. State and local participation in homeland security efforts.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for fiscal year 2025,
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $787,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purpose described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—The funds made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for the purpose of ending the presence of criminal gangs and criminal
organizations throughout the United States, combating domestic human smuggling
and trafficking networks, supporting immigration enforcement activities, and
providing reimbursement for State and local participation in such efforts.

SEC. 70115. Unaccompanied alien children capacity.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Office of Refugee Resettlement for fiscal year 2025, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $3,000,000,000 to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—The funds made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for the Office of Refugee Resettlement to house, transport, and supervise
unaccompanied alien children in the custody of the Office of Refugee
Resettlement pursuant to section 235 of the William Wilberforce Trafficking
Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008.

SEC. 70116. Department of Homeland Security checks for unaccompanied alien
children.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to U.S. Customs and Border Protection for fiscal year 2025, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $20,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—In the case of an unaccompanied alien child who has attained
12 years of age and is encountered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the
funds made available under subsection (a) shall only be used to conduct an
examination of such unaccompanied alien child for gang-related tattoos and
other gang-related markings.

(c) Unaccompanied alien child defined.—In this section, the term
“unaccompanied alien child” shall have the meaning given such term in section
462(g) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002.

SEC. 70117.  Department of Health and Human Services checks for unaccompanied
alien children.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Office of Refugee Resettlement for fiscal year 2025, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $20,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—In the case of each unaccompanied alien child who has
attained 12 years of age, the funds made available under subsection (a) shall
only be used for the purpose of making a determination pursuant to section
235(c)(2)(A) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection
Reauthorization Act of 2008 about whether an unaccompanied alien child poses a
danger to self or others by conducting an examination of the unaccompanied
alien child for gang-related tattoos and other gang-related markings.

(c) Unaccompanied alien child defined.—In this section, the term
“unaccompanied alien child” shall have the meaning given such term in section
462(g) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002.

SEC. 70118.  Information about sponsors and adult residents of sponsor
households.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Office of Refugee Resettlement for fiscal year 2025, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Information about individuals with whom unaccompanied alien children are
placed and reside.—Before placing an unaccompanied alien child with an
individual pursuant to section 235(c) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking
Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall provide to the Secretary of Homeland Security, regarding
the individual with whom the child will be placed and all adult residents of
the individual’s household, information on—

(1) the name of the individual and all adult residents of the individual’s
household;

(2) the social security number of the individual and all adult residents of
the individual’s household;

(3) the date of birth of the individual and all adult residents of the
individual’s household;

(4) the validated location of the individual’s residence where the child will
be placed;

(5) the immigration status of the individual and all adult residents of the
individual’s household;

(6) contact information for the individual and all adult residents of the
individual’s household; and

(7) the results of all background and criminal records checks for the
individual and all adult residents of the individual’s household, which shall
include at a minimum an investigation of the public records sex offender
registry, a public records background check, and a national criminal history
check based on fingerprints.

(c) Unaccompanied alien child defined.—In this section, the term
“unaccompanied alien child” shall have the meaning given such term in section
462(g) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002.

SEC. 70119. Repatriation of unaccompanied alien children.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2025, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—The funds made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used to permit a specified unaccompanied alien child to withdraw the child’s
application for admission pursuant to section 235(a)(4) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act.

(c) Definitions.—In this section—

(1) SPECIFIED UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN CHILD.—The term “specified unaccompanied
alien child” means an unaccompanied alien child (as defined in section 462(g)
of the Homeland Security Act of 2002), regardless of whether such
unaccompanied alien child is a national or habitual resident of a country that
is contiguous or non-contiguous with the United States, who the Secretary of
Homeland Security determines on a case-by-case basis—

(A) has been found by an immigration officer at a land border or port of entry
of the United States and is inadmissible under the Immigration and Nationality
Act;

(B) has not been a victim of severe forms of trafficking in persons, and there
is no credible evidence that such child is at risk of being trafficked upon
return to the child’s country of nationality or of last habitual residence;
and

(C) does not have a fear of returning to the child’s country of nationality or
of last habitual residence owing to a credible fear of persecution.

(2) SEVERE FORMS OF TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS.—The term “severe forms of
trafficking in persons” shall have the meaning given such term in section 103
of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000.

SEC. 70120.  United States Secret Service.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Director of the United States Secret Service for fiscal
year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
$1,170,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes
described in subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for additional United States Secret Service resources, including
personnel, training facilities, and technology.

SEC. 70121.  Combating drug trafficking and illegal drug use.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Department of Justice for fiscal year 2025, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $500,000,000 to remain
available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in subsection
(b).

(b) Use of funds.—Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used for efforts to combat drug trafficking, including of fentanyl and its
precursor chemicals, and illegal drug use.

SEC. 70122.  Investigating and prosecuting immigration related matters.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Department of Justice for fiscal year 2025, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $600,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in subsection
(b).

(b) Use of funds.—Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall only be
used to investigate and prosecute immigration matters, gang-related crimes
involving aliens, child trafficking and smuggling involving aliens, voting by
aliens, violations of the Alien Registration Act, and violations of or fraud
relating to title IV of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act
of 1996, including through hiring Department of Justice personnel to
investigate and prosecute such matters.

SEC. 70123.  Expedited removal for criminal aliens.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2025, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $75,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—The amounts made available in subsection (a) shall only be
used for applying the provisions of section 235(b)(1) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act to any alien who is inadmissible under paragraph (2) or (3) of
section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, regardless of the
period that such alien has been physically present in the United States.

SEC. 70124.  Removal of certain criminal aliens without further hearing.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2025, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $25,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2029, for the purposes described in
subsection (b).

(b) Use of funds.—The amounts made available in subsection (a) shall only be
used for applying the provisions of section 235(c) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act to any arriving alien that an immigration officer or an
immigration judge suspects may be inadmissible under paragraph (2) or (3) of
section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

subtitle B—Regulatory Matters

SEC. 70200.  Review of agency rulemaking.

(a) Deregulation Initiative.—

(1) APPROPRIATION.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget for fiscal
year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
$100,000,000 to remain available through September 30, 2028, to carry out this
section.

(2) USE OF FUNDS.—The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall
use amounts made available under paragraph (1) to pay expenses associated with
improving regulatory processes and analyzing and reviewing rules issued by a
covered agency.

(b) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) COVERED AGENCY.—The term “covered agency”—

(A) means—

(i) the Department of Education;

(ii) the Department of Energy;

(iii) the Department of Health and Human Services;

(iv) the Department of Homeland Security;

(v) the Department of Justice;

(vi) the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; and

(vii) the Environmental Protection Agency; and

(B) does not include the Social Security Administration.

(2) RULE.—The term “rule” has the meaning given the term in section 551 of
title 5, United States Code, only to the extent such rule has been issued by a
covered agency.

subtitle C—Other Matters

SEC. 70300.  Limitation on donations made pursuant to settlement agreements to
which the United States is a party.

(a) Limitation on required donations.—An official within the Department of
Justice may not enter into or enforce any settlement agreement on behalf of
the United States directing or providing for a payment to any person or entity
other than the United States, other than a payment that provides restitution
for or otherwise directly remedies actual harm (including to the environment)
directly and proximately caused by the party making the payment, or
constitutes payment for services rendered in connection with the case.

(b) Penalty.—Any official within the Department of Justice who violates
subsection (a) shall be subject to the same penalties that would apply in the
case of a violation of section 3302 of title 31, United States Code.

(c) Effective date.—Subsections (a) and (b) apply only in the case of a
settlement agreement entered on or after the date of enactment of this Act.

(d) Definition.—The term “settlement agreement” means a settlement agreement
resolving a civil action or potential civil action.

(e) Annual audit requirement.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than at the end of the first fiscal year that begins
after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the
Inspector General of the Department of Justice shall submit, and make
available on a publicly accessible website, a report on any settlement
agreement entered into in violation of this section to—

(A) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.

(2) PROHIBITION ON ADDITIONAL FUNDING.—No additional funds are authorized to
be appropriated to carry out this subsection.

SEC. 70301. Solicitation of orders defined.

Section 101(d) of Public Law 86—272 (73 Stat. 555) is amended—

(1) in paragraph (1) by striking “and” at the end,

(2) in paragraph (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting “; and”,
and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

“(3) the term ‘solicitation of orders’ means any business activity that
facilitates the solicitation of orders even if that activity may also serve
some independently valuable business function apart from solicitation.”.

SEC. 70302. Restriction on enforcement.

No court of the United States may enforce a contempt citation for failure to
comply with an injunction or temporary restraining order if no security was
given when the injunction or order was issued pursuant to Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 65(c), whether issued prior to, on, or subsequent to the date
of enactment of this section.
