TITLE II—Committee on Armed Services

SEC. 20001.  Enhancement of Department of Defense resources for improving the
quality of life for military personnel.

(a) Appropriations.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are
appropriated to the Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until
September 30, 2029—

(1) $230,480,000 for restoration and modernization costs under the Marine
Corps Barracks 2030 initiative;

(2) $119,000,000 for base operating support costs for the Marine Corps;

(3) $1,000,000,000 for Army, Navy, Air Force, and Space Force sustainment,
restoration, and modernizations of military unaccompanied housing;

(4) $2,000,000,000 for the Defense Health Program;

(5) $2,900,000,000 to supplement the basic allowance for housing payable to
members of the Armed Forces, notwithstanding section 403 of title 37, United
States Code;

(6) $50,000,000 for bonuses, special pays, and incentive pays for members of
the Armed Forces pursuant to titles 10 and 37, United States Code;

(7) $10,000,000 for the Defense Activity for Non-Traditional Education
Support’s Online Academic Skills Course program for members of the Armed
Forces;

(8) $100,000,000 for tuition assistance for members of the Armed Forces
pursuant to title 10, United States Code;

(9) $100,000,000 for child care fee assistance for members of the Armed Forces
under part II of [chapter
88](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title10-chapter88-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 10, United States Code;

(10) $590,000,000 to increase the Temporary Lodging Expense Allowance under
[chapter 8](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title37-chapter8-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 37, United States Code,
to 21 days;

(11) $100,000,000 for Department of Defense Impact Aid payments to local
educational agencies under section 2008 of title 10, United States Code;

(12) $10,000,000 for military spouse professional licensure under section 1784
of title 10, United States Code;

(13) $6,000,000 for Armed Forces Retirement Home facilities; and

(14) $100,000,000 for the Defense Community Infrastructure Program.

(b) Temporary increase in percentage of value of authorized investment in
certain privatized military housing projects.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—During the period beginning on the date of the enactment of
this section and ending on September 30, 2029, the Secretary concerned shall
apply—

(A) paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of section 2875 of title 10, United States
Code, by substituting “60 percent” for “33 1⁄3  percent”; and

(B) paragraph (2) of such subsection by substituting “60 percent” for “45
percent”.

(2) SECRETARY CONCERNED DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term “Secretary
concerned” has the meaning given such term in section 101 of title 10, United
States Code.

(c) Temporary authority for acquisition or construction of privatized military
unaccompanied housing.—Section 2881a of title 10, United States Code, is
amended—

(1) by striking the heading and inserting “Temporary authority for acquisition
or construction of privatized military unaccompanied housing”;

(2) by striking “Secretary of the Navy” each place it appears and inserting
“Secretary concerned”;

(3) by striking “under the pilot projects” each place it appears and inserting
“pursuant to this section”;

(4) in subsection (a)—

(A) by striking the heading and inserting “In general”; and

(B) by striking “carry out not more than three pilot projects under the
authority of this section or another provision of this subchapter to use the
private sector” and inserting “use the authority under this subchapter to
enter into contracts with appropriate private sector entities”;

(5) in subsection (c), by striking “privatized housing” and inserting
“privatized housing units”;

(6) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e); and

(7) in subsection (e) (as so redesignated)—

(A) by striking “under the pilot programs” and inserting “under this section”;
and

(B) by striking “September 30, 2009” and inserting “September 30, 2029”.

SEC. 20002.  Enhancement of Department of Defense resources for shipbuilding.

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are appropriated to the
Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2029—

(1) $250,000,000 for the expansion of accelerated Training in Defense
Manufacturing program;

(2) $250,000,000 for United States production of turbine generators for
shipbuilding industrial base;

(3) $450,000,000 for United States additive manufacturing for wire production
and machining capacity for shipbuilding industrial base;

(4) $492,000,000 for next-generation shipbuilding techniques;

(5) $85,000,000 for United States-made steel plate for shipbuilding industrial
base;

(6) $50,000,000 for machining capacity for naval propellers for shipbuilding
industrial base;

(7) $110,000,000 for rolled steel and fabrication facility for shipbuilding
industrial base;

(8) $400,000,000 for expansion of collaborative campus for naval shipbuilding;

(9) $450,000,000 for application of autonomy and artificial intelligence to
naval shipbuilding;

(10) $500,000,000 for the adoption of advanced manufacturing techniques in the
shipbuilding industrial base;

(11) $500,000,000 for additional dry-dock capability;

(12) $50,000,000 for the expansion of cold spray repair technologies;

(13) $450,000,000 for additional maritime industrial workforce development
programs;

(14) $750,000,000 for additional supplier development across the naval
shipbuilding industrial base;

(15) $250,000,000 for additional advanced manufacturing processes across the
naval shipbuilding industrial base;

(16) $4,600,000,000 for a second Virginia-class submarine in fiscal year 2026;

(17) $5,400,000,000 for two additional Guided Missile Destroyer (DDG) ships;

(18) $160,000,000 for advanced procurement for Landing Ship Medium;

(19) $1,803,941,000 for procurement of Landing Ship Medium;

(20) $295,000,000 for development of a second Landing Craft Utility shipyard
and production of additional Landing Craft Utility;

(21) $100,000,000 for the procurement of commercial logistics ships;

(22) $600,000,000 for the lease or purchase of new ships through the National
Defense Sealift Fund;

(23) $2,725,000,000 for the procurement of T-AO oilers;

(24) $500,000,000 for cost-to-complete for rescue and salvage ships;

(25) $300,000,000 for production of ship-to-shore connectors;

(26) $695,000,000 for the implementation of a multi-ship amphibious warship
contract;

(27) $80,000,000 for accelerated development of vertical launch system
reloading at sea;

(28) $250,000,000 for expansion of Navy corrosion control programs;

(29) $159,000,000 for leasing of ships for Marine Corps operations;

(30) $1,534,000,000 for expansion of small unmanned surface vessel production;

(31) $1,800,000,000 for expansion of medium unmanned surface vessel
production;

(32) $1,300,000,000 for expansion of unmanned underwater vehicle production;

(33) $188,360,000 for the development and testing of maritime robotic
autonomous systems and enabling technologies;

(34) $174,000,000 for the development of a Test Resource Management Center
robotic autonomous systems proving ground;

(35) $250,000,000 for the development, production, and integration of wave-
powered unmanned underwater vehicles;

(36) $2,100,000,000 for San Antonio-class Amphibious Transport Dock (LPD); and

(37) $3,700,000,000 for America-class Amphibious Assault Ship (LHA).

SEC. 20003.  Enhancement of Department of Defense resources for integrated air
and missile defense.

(a) Next generation missile defense technologies.—In addition to amounts
otherwise available, there are appropriated to the Secretary of Defense for
fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
to remain available until September 30, 2029—

(1) $183,000,000 for Missile Defense Agency special programs;

(2) $250,000,000 for development and testing of directed energy capabilities
by the Under Secretary for Research and Engineering;

(3) $300,000,000 for classified military space superiority programs run by the
Strategic Capabilities Office;

(4) $500,000,000 for national security space launch infrastructure;

(5) $2,000,000,000 for air moving target indicator military satellites;

(6) $400,000,000 for expansion of Multi-Service Advanced Capability Hypersonic
Test Bed program;

(7) $5,600,000,000 for development of space-based and boost phase intercept
capabilities;

(8) $2,400,000,000 for the development of military non-kinetic missile defense
effects; and

(9) $7,200,000,000 for the development, procurement, and integration of
military space-based sensors.

(b) Layered homeland defense.—In addition to amounts otherwise available,
there are appropriated to the Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available
until September 30, 2029—

(1) $2,200,000,000 for acceleration of hypersonic defense systems;

(2) $800,000,000 for accelerated development and deployment of next-generation
intercontinental ballistic missile defense systems;

(3) $408,000,000 for Army space and strategic missile test range
infrastructure restoration and modernization in the United States Indo-Pacific
Command area of operations west of the international dateline;

(4) $1,975,000,000 for improved ground-based missile defense radars; and

(5) $530,000,000 for the design and construction of Missile Defense Agency
missile instrumentation range safety ship.

SEC. 20004.  Enhancement of Department of Defense resources for munitions and
defense supply chain resiliency.

(a) Appropriations.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are
appropriated to the Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until
September 30, 2029—

(1) $400,000,000 for the development, production, and integration of Navy and
Air Force long-range anti-ship missiles;

(2) $380,000,000 for production capacity expansion for Navy and Air Force
long-range anti-ship missiles;

(3) $490,000,000 for the development, production, and integration of Navy and
Air Force long-range air-to-surface missiles;

(4) $94,000,000 for the development, production, and integration of
alternative Navy and Air Force long-range air-to-surface missiles;

(5) $630,000,000 for the development, production, and integration of long-
range Navy air defense and anti-ship missiles;

(6) $688,000,000 for the development, production, and integration of long-
range multi-service cruise missiles;

(7) $250,000,000 for production capacity expansion and supplier base
strengthening of long-range multi-service cruise missiles;

(8) $70,000,000 for the development, production, and integration of short-
range Navy and Marine Corps anti-ship missiles;

(9) $100,000,000 for the development of an anti-ship seeker for short-range
Army ballistic missiles;

(10) $175,000,000 for production capacity expansion for next-generation Army
medium-range ballistic missiles;

(11) $50,000,000 for the mitigation of diminishing manufacturing sources for
medium-range air-to-air missiles;

(12) $250,000,000 for the procurement of medium-range air-to-air missiles;

(13) $225,000,000 for the expansion of production capacity for medium-range
air-to-air missiles;

(14) $50,000,000 for the development of second sources for components of
short-range air-to-air missiles;

(15) $325,000,000 for production capacity improvements for air-launched anti-
radiation missiles;

(16) $50,000,000 for the accelerated development of Army next-generation
medium-range anti-ship ballistic missiles;

(17) $114,000,000 for the production of Army next-generation medium-range
ballistic missiles;

(18) $300,000,000 for the production of Army medium-range ballistic missiles;

(19) $85,000,000 for the accelerated development of Army long-range ballistic
missiles;

(20) $400,000,000 for the production of heavyweight torpedoes;

(21) $200,000,000 for the development, procurement, and integration of
commercial heavyweight torpedoes;

(22) $70,000,000 for the improvement of heavyweight torpedo maintenance
activities;

(23) $200,000,000 for the production of lightweight torpedoes;

(24) $500,000,000 for the development, procurement, and integration of
maritime mines;

(25) $50,000,000 for the development, procurement, and integration of new
underwater explosives;

(26) $55,000,000 for the development, procurement, and integration of
lightweight multi-mission torpedoes;

(27) $80,000,000 for the production of sonobuoys;

(28) $150,000,000 for the development, procurement, and integration of air-
delivered long-range maritime mines;

(29) $61,000,000 for the acceleration of Navy expeditionary loitering
munitions deployment;

(30) $50,000,000 for the acceleration of one-way attack unmanned aerial
systems with advanced autonomy;

(31) $1,000,000,000 for the expansion of the one-way attack unmanned aerial
systems industrial base;

(32) $3,500,000,000 for grants made pursuant to the Industrial Base Fund
established under section 4817 of title 10, United States Code;

(33) $1,000,000,000 for grants and purchase commitments made pursuant to the
Industrial Base Fund established under section 4817 of title 10, United States
Code;

(34) $200,000,000 for investments in solid rocket motor industrial base
through the Industrial Base Fund established under section 4817 of title 10,
United States Code;

(35) $400,000,000 for investments in the emerging solid rocket motor
industrial base through the Industrial Base Fund established under section
4817 of title 10, United States Code;

(36) $42,000,000 for investments in second sources for large-diameter solid
rocket motors for hypersonic missiles;

(37) $1,000,000,000 for the creation of next-generation automated munitions
production factories;

(38) $170,000,000 for the development of advanced radar depot for repair,
testing, and production of radar and electronic warfare systems;

(39) $25,000,000 for the expansion of the Department of Defense industrial
base policy analysis workforce;

(40) $30,300,000 for the repair of Army missiles;

(41) $100,000,000 for the production of small and medium ammunition;

(42) $2,500,000,000 for additional activities to improve the United States
production of critical minerals through the National Defense Stockpile,
authorized by subchapter III of [chapter
5](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title50-chapter5-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 50, United States Code;

(43) $10,000,000 for the expansion of the Department of Defense armaments
cooperation workforce;

(44) $500,000,000 for the expansion of the Defense Exportability Features
program;

(45) $350,000,000 for production of Navy long-range air and missile defense
interceptors;

(46) $93,000,000 for replacement of Navy long-range air and missile defense
interceptors;

(47) $100,000,000 for development of a second solid rocket motor source for
Navy air defense and anti ship missiles;

(48) $65,000,000 for expansion of production capacity of Missile Defense
Agency long-range anti-ballistic missiles;

(49) $225,000,000 for expansion of production capacity for Navy air defense
and anti-ship missiles;

(50) $103,300,000 for expansion of depot level maintenance facility for Navy
long-range air and missile defense interceptors;

(51) $18,000,000 for creation of domestic source for guidance section of Navy
short-range air defense missiles;

(52) $65,000,000 for integration of Army medium-range air and missile defense
interceptor with Navy ships;

(53) $176,100,000 for production of Army long-range movable missile defense
radar;

(54) $100,000,000 for accelerated fielding of Army short-range gun-based air
and missile defense system;

(55) $40,000,000 for development of low-cost alternatives to air and missile
defense interceptors;

(56) $50,000,000 for acceleration of Army next-generation shoulder-fired air
defense system;

(57) $91,000,000 for production of Army next-generation shoulder-fired air
defense system;

(58) $500,000,000 for development, production, and integration of counter-
unmanned aerial systems programs;

(59) $350,000,000 for development, production, and integration of non-kinetic
counter-unmanned aerial systems programs;

(60) $250,000,000 for development, production, and integration of land-based
counter-unmanned aerial systems programs;

(61) $200,000,000 for development, production, and integration of ship-based
counter-unmanned aerial systems programs; and

(62) $400,000,000 for acceleration of hypersonic strike programs.

(b) Appropriations.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Secretary of Defense, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2029,
$500,000,000 to the “Department of Defense Credit Program Account” to carry
out the capital assistance program, including loans, loan guarantees, and
technical assistance, established under section 149(e) of title 10, United
States Code, for critical minerals and related industries and projects,
including related Covered Technology Categories: _Provided_ , That—

(1) such amounts are available to subsidize gross obligations for the
principal amount of direct loans, and total loan principal, any part of which
is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $100,000,000,000; and

(2) such amounts are available to cover all costs and expenditures as provided
under section 149(e)(5)(B) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 20005.  Enhancement of Department of Defense resources for scaling low-
cost weapons into production.

(a) Appropriations.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are
appropriated to the Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until
September 30, 2029—

(1) $25,000,000 for the Office of Strategic Capital Global Technology Scout
program;

(2) $1,100,000,000 for the expansion of the small unmanned aerial system
industrial base;

(3) $400,000,000 for the development and deployment of the Joint Fires Network
and associated joint battle management capabilities;

(4) $400,000,000 for the expansion of advanced command-and-control tools to
combatant commands and military departments;

(5) $100,000,000 for the development of shared secure facilities for the
defense industrial base;

(6) $50,000,000 for the creation of additional Defense Innovation Unit OnRamp
Hubs;

(7) $250,000,000 for the acceleration of Strategic Capabilities Office
programs;

(8) $650,000,000 for the expansion of Mission Capabilities office joint
prototyping and experimentation activities for military innovation;

(9) $500,000,000 for the accelerated development and integration of advanced
5G/6G technologies for military use;

(10) $25,000,000 for testing of simultaneous transmit and receive technology
for military spectrum agility;

(11) $50,000,000 for the development, procurement, and integration of high-
altitude stratospheric balloons for military use;

(12) $120,000,000 for the development, procurement, and integration of long-
endurance unmanned aerial systems for surveillance;

(13) $40,000,000 for the development, procurement, and integration of
alternative positioning and navigation technology to enable military
operations in contested electromagnetic environments;

(14) $750,000,000 for the acceleration of innovative military logistics and
energy capability development and deployment;

(15) $120,000,000 for the acceleration of development of small, portable
modular nuclear reactors for military use;

(16) $1,000,000,000 for the expansion of programs to accelerate the
procurement and fielding of innovative technologies;

(17) $90,000,000 for the development of reusable hypersonic technology for
military strikes;

(18) $2,000,000,000 for the expansion of Defense Innovation Unit scaling of
commercial technology for military use;

(19) $500,000,000 to prevent delays in delivery of attritable autonomous
military capabilities;

(20) $1,000,000,000 for the development, procurement, and integration of low-
cost cruise missiles;

(21) $124,000,000 for improvements to Test Resource Management Center
artificial intelligence capabilities;

(22) $145,000,000 for the development of artificial intelligence to enable
one-way attack unmanned aerial systems and naval systems;

(23) $250,000,000 for the development of the Test Resource Management Center
digital test environment;

(24) $250,000,000 for the advancement of the artificial intelligence
ecosystem;

(25) $250,000,000 for the expansion of Cyber Command artificial intelligence
lines of effort;

(26) $250,000,000 for the acceleration of the Quantum Benchmarking Initiative;

(27) $500,000,000 for the expansion and acceleration of qualification
activities and technical data management to enhance competition in defense
industrial base;

(28) $400,000,000 for the expansion of the defense manufacturing technology
program; and

(29) $685,000,000 for military cryptographic modernization activities.

(b) Appropriations.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are
appropriated to the Secretary of Defense, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2029,
$1,000,000,000 to the “Department of Defense Credit Program Account” to carry
out the capital assistance program, including loans, loan guarantees, and
technical assistance, established under section 149(e) of title 10, United
States Code: _Provided_ , That—

(1) such amounts are available to subsidize gross obligations for the
principal amount of direct loans, and total loan principal, any part of which
is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $100,000,000,000; and

(2) such amounts are available to cover all costs and expenditures as provided
under section 149(e)(5)(B) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 20006.  Enhancement of Department of Defense resources for improving the
efficiency and cybersecurity of the Department of Defense.

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are appropriated to the
Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2029—

(1) $150,000,000 for business systems replacement to accelerate the audits of
the financial statements of the Department of Defense pursuant to chapter 9A
and section 2222 of title 10, United States Code;

(2) $200,000,000 for the deployment of automation and artificial intelligence
to accelerate the audits of the financial statements of the Department of
Defense pursuant to chapter 9A and section 2222 of title 10, United States
Code;

(3) $10,000,000 for the improvement of the budgetary and programmatic
infrastructure of the Office of the Secretary of Defense; and

(4) $20,000,000 for defense cybersecurity programs of the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency.

SEC. 20007.  Enhancement of Department of Defense resources for air
superiority.

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are appropriated to the
Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2029—

(1) $3,150,000,000 to increase F–15EX aircraft production;

(2) $361,220,000 to prevent the retirement of F–22 aircraft;

(3) $127,460,000 to prevent the retirement of F–15E aircraft;

(4) $50,000,000 to accelerate installation of F–16 electronic warfare
capability;

(5) $116,000,000 for C–17A Mobility Aircraft Connectivity;

(6) $84,000,000 for KC–135 Mobility Aircraft Connectivity;

(7) $440,000,000 to increase C–130J production;

(8) $474,000,000 to increase EA–37B production;

(9) $300,000,000 for Air Force classified programs;

(10) $678,000,000 to accelerate the Collaborative Combat Aircraft program;

(11) $400,000,000 to accelerate production of the F–47 aircraft;

(12) $230,000,000 for Navy classified programs;

(13) $500,000,000 accelerate the FA/XX aircraft;

(14) $100,000,000 for production of Advanced Aerial Sensors;

(15) $160,000,000 to accelerate V–22 nacelle improvement; and

(16) $100,000,000 to accelerate production of MQ–25 aircraft.

SEC. 20008.  Enhancement of resources for nuclear forces.

(a) DOD appropriations.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are
appropriated to the Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until
September 30, 2029—

(1) $1,500,000,000 for risk reduction activities for the Sentinel
intercontinental ballistic missile program;

(2) $4,500,000,000 for acceleration of the B–21 long-range bomber aircraft;

(3) $500,000,000 for improvements to the Minuteman III intercontinental
ballistic missile system;

(4) $100,000,000 for capability enhancements to intercontinental ballistic
missile reentry vehicles;

(5) $148,000,000 for the expansion of D5 missile motor production;

(6) $400,000,000 to accelerate the development of Trident D5LE2 submarine-
launched ballistic missiles;

(7) $2,000,000,000 to accelerate the development, procurement, and integration
of the nuclear-armed sea-launched cruise missile;

(8) $22,000,000 to enhance nuclear deterrence through classified programs;

(9) $168,000,000 to accelerate the production of the Survivable Airborne
Operations Center program;

(10) $65,000,000 to accelerate the modernization of nuclear command, control,
and communications; and

(11) $210,300,000 for the increased production of MH–139 helicopters.

(b) NNSA appropriations.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are
appropriated to the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security
Administration for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2029—

(1) $200,000,000 to perform National Nuclear Security Administration Phase 1
studies pursuant to section 3211 of the National Nuclear Security
Administration Act ([50 U.S.C.
2401](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=50&section=2401));

(2) $540,000,000 to address deferred maintenance and repair needs of the
National Nuclear Security Administration pursuant to section 3211 of the
National Nuclear Security Administration Act ([50 U.S.C.
2401](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=50&section=2401));

(3) $1,000,000,000 to accelerate the construction of National Nuclear Security
Administration facilities pursuant to section 3211 of the National Nuclear
Security Administration Act ([50 U.S.C.
2401](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=50&section=2401));

(4) $400,000,000 to accelerate the development, procurement, and integration
of the warhead for the nuclear-armed sea-launched cruise missile pursuant to
section 3211 of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act ([50 U.S.C.
2401](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=50&section=2401));

(5) $500,000,000 to accelerate primary capability modernization pursuant to
section 3211 of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act ([50 U.S.C.
2401](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=50&section=2401));

(6) $500,000,000 to accelerate secondary capability modernization pursuant to
section 3211 of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act ([50 U.S.C.
2401](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=50&section=2401)); and

(7) $100,000,000 to accelerate domestic uranium enrichment centrifuge
deployment for defense purposes pursuant to section 3211 of the National
Nuclear Security Administration Act ([50 U.S.C.
2401](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=50&section=2401)).

SEC. 20009.  Enhancement of Department of Defense resources to improve
capabilities of United States Indo-Pacific Command.

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are appropriated to the
Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2029—

(1) $365,000,000 for Army exercises and operations in the Western Pacific area
of operations;

(2) $53,000,000 for Special Operations Command exercises and operations in the
Western Pacific area of operations;

(3) $47,000,000 for Marine Corps exercises and operations in Western Pacific
area of operations;

(4) $90,000,000 for Air Force exercises and operations in Western Pacific area
of operations;

(5) $532,600,000 for the Pacific Air Force biennial large-scale exercise;

(6) $19,000,000 for the development of naval small craft capabilities;

(7) $35,000,000 for military additive manufacturing capabilities in the United
States Indo-Pacific Command area of operations west of the international
dateline;

(8) $450,000,000 for the development of airfields within the area of
operations of United States Indo-Pacific Command;

(9) $1,100,000,000 for development of infrastructure within the area of
operations of United States Indo-Pacific Command;

(10) $124,000,000 for mission networks for United States Indo-Pacific Command;

(11) $100,000,000 for Air Force regionally based cluster pre-position base
kits;

(12) $25,000,000 to explore the revitalization of existing Arctic naval
infrastructure;

(13) $90,000,000 for the accelerated development of non-kinetic capabilities;

(14) $20,000,000 for United States Indo-Pacific Command military exercises;

(15) $23,000,000 for anti-submarine sonar arrays;

(16) $30,000,000 for surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities for United
States Africa Command;

(17) $30,000,000 for surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities for United
States Indo-Pacific Command;

(18) $400,000,000 for the development, coordination, and deployment of
economic competition effects within the Department of Defense;

(19) $10,000,000 for the expansion of Department of Defense workforce for
economic competition;

(20) $1,000,000,000 for offensive cyber operations;

(21) $500,000,000 for personnel and operations costs associated with forces
assigned to United States Indo-Pacific Command;

(22) $300,000,000 for the procurement of mesh network communications
capabilities for Special Operations Command Pacific;

(23) $850,000,000 for the replenishment of military articles;

(24) $200,000,000 for acceleration of Guam Defense System program;

(25) $4,029,000,000 for classified military space superiority programs;

(26) $68,000,000 for Space Force facilities improvements;

(27) $100,000,000 for ground moving target indicator military satellites; and

(28) $528,000,000 for DARC and SILENTBARKER military space situational
awareness programs.

SEC. 20010.  Enhancement of Department of Defense resources for improving the
readiness of the Armed Forces.

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are appropriated to the
Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2029—

(1) $1,400,000,000 for a pilot program on OPN-8 maritime spares and repair
rotable pool;

(2) $700,000,000 for a pilot program on OPN-8 maritime spares and repair
rotable pool for amphibious ships;

(3) $2,118,000,000 for spares and repairs to keep Air Force aircraft mission
capable;

(4) $1,500,000,000 for Army depot modernization and capacity enhancement;

(5) $2,000,000,000 for Navy depot and shipyard modernization and capacity
enhancement;

(6) $250,000,000 for Air Force depot modernization and capacity enhancement;

(7) $1,391,000,000 for the enhancement of Special Operations Command equipment
and readiness;

(8) $500,000,000 for National Guard unit readiness;

(9) $400,000,000 for Marine Corps readiness and capabilities;

(10) $20,000,000 for upgrades to Marine Corps utility helicopters;

(11) $310,000,000 for next-generation vertical lift, assault, and intra-
theater aeromedical evacuation aircraft;

(12) $75,000,000 for the procurement of anti-lock braking systems for Army
wheeled transport vehicles;

(13) $230,000,000 for the procurement of Army wheeled combat vehicles;

(14) $63,000,000 for the development of advanced rotary-wing engines;

(15) $241,000,000 for the development, procurement, and integration of Marine
Corps amphibious vehicles;

(16) $250,000,000 for the procurement of Army tracked combat transport
vehicles; and

(17) $98,000,000 for additional Army light rotary-wing capabilities.

SEC. 20011.  Improving Department of Defense border support and counter-drug
missions.

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there are appropriated to the
Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2029,
$5,000,000,000 for activities in support of border operations, including
deployment of military personnel, operations and maintenance, counter-
narcotics and counter-transnational criminal organization mission support, the
operation of and construction in national defense areas, the temporary
detention of migrants on Department of Defense installations.

SEC. 20012.  Department of Defense oversight.

(a) Office of the Secretary of Defense.—In addition to amounts otherwise
available, there is appropriated to the Inspector General of the Department of
Defense for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, $10,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2029, to
carry out this section.

(b) Oversight of programs.—The Inspector General shall monitor Department of
Defense activities for which funding is appropriated in this title, including—

(1) programs with mutual technological dependencies;

(2) programs with related data management and data ownership considerations;

(3) programs particularly vulnerable to supply chain disruptions and long lead
time components; and

(4) programs involving classified matters.

(c) Classified matters.—Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment
of this title, the Chairs of the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and House of Representatives shall jointly transmit to the Department of
Defense a classified memorandum regarding amounts made available in this title
related to classified matters.

SEC. 20013.  Military construction projects authorized.

(a) Authorization of appropriations.—Funds are hereby authorized to be
appropriated for military construction, land acquisition, and military family
housing functions of each military department (as defined in section 101(a) of
title 10, United States Code) as specified in this title.

(b) Spending plan.—Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of
this title, the Secretary of each military department shall submit to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a
detailed spending plan by project for all funds made available by this title
to be expended on military construction projects.

SEC. 20014.  Plan required.

(a) In general.—Not later than 45 days after the date of the enactment of this
title, the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the National Nuclear
Security Agency, as appropriate, shall submit to the Committees on Armed
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a spending,
expenditure, or operating plan for amounts made available pursuant to this
title. Such plan shall include the same level of detail as required for the
report submitted under section 8007 of division A of the Further Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2024 ([Public Law
118–47](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-118publ47/pdf/PLAW-118publ47.pdf);
138 Stat. 482).

(b) Expenditure report.—Not later than one year after the date of enactment of
this title, and annually thereafter, the Secretary and the Administrator of
the National Nuclear Security Agency, as appropriate, shall submit to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representative a
report that includes a description of any expenditures made pursuant to the
plan required under subsection (a).

SEC. 20015.  Limitation on availability of funds.

The funds made available under this title may not be used to enter into any
agreement under which any payment of such funds could be outlaid or disbursed
after September 30, 2034.
