TITLE I—Committee on Agriculture

subtitle A—Nutrition

SEC. 10001.  Thrifty food plan.

Section 3(u) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7 U.S.C.
2012(u)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2012)) is
amended to read as follows:

“(u) (1) ‘Thrifty food plan’ means the diet required to feed a family of 4
persons consisting of a man and a woman 20 through 50, a child 6 through 8,
and a child 9 through 11 years of age, based on relevant market baskets that
shall only be changed pursuant to paragraph (3). The cost of such diet shall
be the basis for uniform allotments for all households regardless of their
actual composition. The Secretary shall only adjust the cost of the diet as
specified in paragraphs (2) and (4).

“(2) Household adjustments.—The Secretary shall make household-size
adjustments based on the following ratios of household size as a percentage of
the maximum 4-person allotment:

“(A) For a 1-person household, 30 percent.

“(B) For a 2-person household, 55 percent.

“(C) For a 3-person household, 79 percent.

“(D) For a 4-person household, 100 percent.

“(E) For a 5-person household, 119 percent.

“(F) For a 6-person household, 143 percent.

“(G) For a 7-person household, 158 percent.

“(H) For an 8-person household, 180 percent.

“(I) For a 9-person household, 203 percent.

“(J) For a 10-person household, 224 percent.

“(K) For households with more than 10 persons, such adjustment for each
additional person shall be 224 percent plus the product of 21 percent and the
difference in the number of persons in the household and 10.

“(3) REEVALUATION OF MARKET BASKETS.—

“(A) EVALUATION.—Not earlier than October 1, 2028, and at not more frequently
than 5-year intervals thereafter, the Secretary may reevaluate the market
baskets of the thrifty food plan taking into consideration current food
prices, food composition data, consumption patterns, and dietary guidance.

“(B) NOTICE.—Prior to any update of the market baskets of the thrifty food
plan based on a reevaluation pursuant to subparagraph (A), the methodology and
results of any such revelation shall be published in the Federal Register with
an opportunity for comment of not less than 60 days.

“(C) COST NEUTRALITY.—The Secretary shall not increase the cost of the thrifty
food plan based on a reevaluation or update under this paragraph.

“(4) ALLOWABLE COST ADJUSTMENTS.—On October 1 immediately following the
effective date of this paragraph and on each October 1 thereafter, the
Secretary shall—

“(A) adjust the cost of the thrifty food plan to reflect changes in the
Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics of the Department of Labor, for the most recent 12-month period
ending in June;

“(B) make cost adjustments in the thrifty food plan for urban and rural parts
of Hawaii and urban and rural parts of Alaska to reflect the cost of food in
urban and rural Hawaii and urban and rural Alaska provided such cost
adjustment shall not exceed the rate of increase described in the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers, published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics of the Department of Labor, for the most recent 12-month period
ending in June; and

“(C) make cost adjustments in the separate thrifty food plans for Guam and the
Virgin Islands of the United States to reflect the cost of food in those
States, but not to exceed the cost of food in the 50 States and the District
of Columbia, provided that such cost adjustment shall not exceed the rate of
increase described in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers,
published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor, for
the most recent 12-month period ending in June.”.

SEC. 10002.  Able bodied adults without dependents work requirements.

(a) Section 6(o)(3) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 is amended to read
as follows:

“(3) EXCEPTION.—Paragraph (2) shall not apply to an individual if the
individual is—

“(A) under 18 or over 65 years of age;

“(B) medically certified as physically or mentally unfit for employment;

“(C) a parent or other member of a household with responsibility for a
dependent child under 7 years of age;

“(D) otherwise exempt under subsection (d)(2);

“(E) a pregnant woman;

“(F) currently homeless;

“(G) a veteran;

“(H) 24 years of age or younger and was in foster care under the
responsibility of a State on the date of attaining 18 years of age or such
higher age as the State has elected under section 475(8)(B)(iii) of the Social
Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
675(8)(B)(iii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=675));
or

“(I) responsible for a dependent child 7 years of age or older and is married
to, and resides with, an individual who is in compliance with the requirements
of paragraph (2).”.

(b) Sunset Provision.—The exceptions in subparagraphs (F) through (H) shall
cease to have effect on October 1, 2030.

SEC. 10003.  Able bodied adults without dependents waivers.

Section 6(o) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7 U.S.C.
2015(o)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2015)) is
amended—

(1) by amending paragraph (4)(A) to read as follows:

“(A) IN GENERAL.—On the request of a State agency and with the support of the
chief executive officer of the State, the Secretary may waive the
applicability of paragraph (2) for not more than 12 consecutive months to any
group of individuals in the State if the Secretary makes a determination that
the county, or county-equivalent (as recognized by the Census Bureau) in which
the individuals reside has an unemployment rate of over 10 percent.”; and

(2) in paragraph (6)(F) by striking “8 percent” and inserting “1 percent”.

SEC. 10004.  Availability of standard utility allowances based on receipt of
energy assistance.

(a) Allowance to recipients of energy assistance.—

Section 5(e)(6)(C)(iv)(I) of the of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7
U.S.C.
2014(e)(6)(C)(iv)(I)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2014))
is amended by inserting “with an elderly or disabled member” after
“households”.

(b) Third-party energy assistance payments.—Section 5(k)(4) of the Food and
Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7 U.S.C.
2014(k)(4)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2014))
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (A) by inserting “without an elderly or disabled member”
after “household” the 1st place it appears; and

(2) in subparagraph (B) by inserting “with an elderly or disabled member”
after “household” the 1st place it appears.

SEC. 10005.  Restrictions on internet expenses.

Section 5(e)(6) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7 U.S.C.
2014(e)(6)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2014))
is amended by adding at the end the following:

“(E) RESTRICTIONS ON INTERNET EXPENSES.—Service fees associated with internet
connection, including, but not limited to, monthly subscriber fees (i.e., the
base rate paid by the household each month in order to receive service, which
may include high-speed internet), taxes and fees charged to the household by
the provider that recur on regular bills, the cost of modem rentals, and fees
charged by the provider for initial installation, shall not be used in
computing the excess shelter expense deduction.”.

SEC. 10006.  Matching funds requirements.

(a) In general.—Section 4(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7 U.S.C.
2013(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2013)) is
amended—

(1) by striking “(a) Subject to” and inserting the following:

“(a) Program.—

“(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Subject to”; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

“(2) Matching funds requirements.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—

“(i) FEDERAL SHARE.—Subject to subparagraph (B), the Federal share of the cost
of allotments described in paragraph (1) in a fiscal year shall be—

“(I) for each of fiscal years 2026 and 2027, 100 percent; and

“(II) for fiscal year 2028 and each fiscal year thereafter, 95 percent.

“(ii) STATE SHARE.—Subject to subparagraph (B), the State share of the cost of
allotments described in paragraph (1) in a fiscal year shall be—

“(I) for each of fiscal years 2026 and 2027, 0 percent; and

“(II) for fiscal year 2028 and each fiscal year thereafter, 5 percent.

“(B) STATE QUALITY CONTROL INCENTIVE.—Beginning in fiscal year 2028, any State
that has a payment error rate, as defined in section 16, for the most recent
complete fiscal year for which data is available, of—

“(i) equal to or greater than 6 percent but less than 8 percent, shall have
its Federal share of the cost of allotments described in paragraph (1) for the
current fiscal year equal 85 percent, and its State share equal 15 percent;

“(ii) equal to or greater than 8 percent but less than 10 percent, shall have
its Federal share of the cost of allotments described in paragraph (1) for the
current fiscal year equal 80 percent, and its State share equal 20 percent;
and

“(iii) equal to or greater than 10 percent, shall have its Federal share of
the cost of allotments described in paragraph (1) for the current fiscal year
equal 75 percent, and its State share equal 25 percent.”.

(b) Rule of construction.—The Secretary of Agriculture may not pay towards the
cost of allotments described in paragraph (1) of section 4(a) of the Food and
Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7 U.S.C.
2013(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2013)),
as designated by subsection (a), an amount greater than the applicable Federal
share described in paragraph (2) of such section 4(a), as added by subsection
(a).

SEC. 10007.  Administrative cost sharing.

Section 16(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7 U.S.C.
2025(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2025)) is
amended by striking “50 per centum” and inserting “25 percent”.

SEC. 10008.  General work requirement age.

Section 6(d) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7 U.S.C.
2015(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2015)) is
amended—

(1) in paragraph (1)(A), in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking “over
the age of 15 and under the age of 60” and inserting “over the age of 17 and
under the age of 65”; and

(2) in paragraph (2)—

(A) by striking “child under age six” and inserting “child under age seven”;
and

(B) by striking “between 1 and 6 years of age” and inserting “between 1 and 7
years of age”.

SEC. 10009.  National Accuracy Clearinghouse.

Section 11(x)(2) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7 U.S.C.
2020(x)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2020))
is amended by adding at the end the following:

“(D) DATA SHARING TO PREVENT OTHER MULTIPLE ISSUANCES.—A State agency shall
use each indication of multiple issuance, or each indication that an
individual receiving supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits in 1
State has applied to receive supplemental nutrition assistance program
benefits in another State, to prevent multiple issuances of other Federal and
State assistance program benefits that a State agency administers through the
integrated eligibility system that the State uses to administer the
supplemental nutrition assistance program in the State.”.

SEC. 10010.  Quality control zero tolerance.

Section 16(c)(1)(A)(ii) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7 U.S.C.
2025(c)(1)(A)(ii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2025))
is amended—

(1) in subclause (I), by striking “and” at the end;

(2) in subclause (II)—

(A) by striking “fiscal year thereafter” and inserting “of fiscal years 2015
through 2025”; and

(B) by striking the period at the end and inserting “; and”; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

“(III) for each fiscal year thereafter, $0.”.

SEC. 10011.  National education and obesity prevention grant program repealer.

The Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7 U.S.C. 2011 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2011)) is
amended by striking section 28 ([7 U.S.C.
2036a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2036a)).

SEC. 10012.  Alien SNAP eligibility.

Section 6(f) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ([7 U.S.C.
2015(f)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2015)) is
amended to read as follows:

“(f) No individual who is a member of a household otherwise eligible to
participate in the supplemental nutrition assistance program under this
section shall be eligible to participate in the supplemental nutrition
assistance program as a member of that or any other household unless he or she
is—

“(1) a resident of the United States; and

“(2) either—

“(A) a citizen or national of the United States;

“(B) an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence as an immigrant as
defined by sections 101(a)(15) and 101(a)(20) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act, excluding, among others, alien visitors, tourists, diplomats,
and students who enter the United States temporarily with no intention of
abandoning their residence in a foreign country;

“(C) an alien who is a citizen or national of the Republic of Cuba and who—

“(i) is the beneficiary of an approved petition under section 203(a) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act;

“(ii) meets all eligibility requirements for an immigrant visa but for whom
such a visa is not immediately available;

“(iii) is not otherwise inadmissible under section 212(a) of such Act; and

“(iv) is physically present in the United States pursuant to a grant of parole
in furtherance of the commitment of the United States to the minimum level of
annual legal migration of Cuban nationals to the United States specified in
the U.S.-Cuba Joint Communiqué on Migration, done at New York September 9,
1994, and reaffirmed in the Cuba-United States: Joint Statement on
Normalization of Migration, Building on the Agreement of September 9, 1994,
done at New York May 2, 1995; or

“(D) an individual who lawfully resides in the United States in accordance
with a Compact of Free Association referred to in section 402(b)(2)(G) of the
Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996.

The income (less, at State option, a pro rata share) and financial resources
of the individual rendered ineligible to participate in the supplemental
nutrition assistance program under this subsection shall be considered in
determining the eligibility and the value of the allotment of the household of
which such individual is a member.”.

SEC. 10013.  Emergency food assistance.

Section 203D(d)(5) of the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983 ([7 U.S.C.
7507(d)(5)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=7507))
is amended by striking “2024” and inserting “2031”.

subtitle B—Investment in Rural America

SEC. 10101. Safety net.

(a) Reference price.—Section 1111(19) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7
U.S.C.
9011(19)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9011))
is amended to read as follows:

“(19) REFERENCE PRICE.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), the term ‘reference
price’, with respect to a covered commodity for a crop year, means the
following:

“(i) For wheat, $6.35 per bushel.

“(ii) For corn, $4.10 per bushel.

“(iii) For grain sorghum, $4.40 per bushel.

“(iv) For barley, $5.45 per bushel.

“(v) For oats, $2.65 per bushel.

“(vi) For long grain rice, $16.90 per hundredweight.

“(vii) For medium grain rice, $16.90 per hundredweight.

“(viii) For soybeans, $10.00 per bushel.

“(ix) For other oilseeds, $23.75 per hundredweight.

“(x) For peanuts, $630.00 per ton.

“(xi) For dry peas, $13.10 per hundredweight.

“(xii) For lentils, $23.75 per hundredweight.

“(xiii) For small chickpeas, $22.65 per hundredweight.

“(xiv) For large chickpeas, $25.65 per hundredweight.

“(xv) For seed cotton, $0.42 per pound.

“(B) EFFECTIVENESS.—Effective beginning with the 2031 crop year, the reference
prices defined in subparagraph (A) with respect to a covered commodity shall
equal the reference price in the previous crop year multiplied by 1.005.

“(C) LIMITATION.—In no case shall a reference price for a covered commodity
exceed 115 percent of the reference price for such covered commodity listed in
subparagraph (A).”.

(b) Base acres.—Section 1112 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9012](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9012)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (d)(3)(A), by striking “2023” and inserting “2031”; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

“(e) Additional base acres.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this
subsection, and notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide
notice to owners of eligible farms pursuant to paragraph (4) and allocate to
those eligible farms a total of not more than an additional 30,000,000 base
acres in the manner provided in this subsection.

“(2) CONTENT OF NOTICE.—The notice under paragraph (1) shall include the
following:

“(A) Information that the allocation is occurring.

“(B) Information regarding the eligibility of the farm for an allocation of
base acres under paragraph (4).

“(C) Information regarding how an owner may appeal a determination of
ineligibility for an allocation of base acres under paragraph (4) through an
appeals process established by the Secretary.

“(3) OPT-OUT.—An owner of a farm that is eligible to receive an allocation of
base acres may elect to not receive that allocation by notifying the
Secretary.

“(4) ELIGIBILITY.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph (D), effective beginning with the
2026 crop year, a farm is eligible to receive an allocation of base acres if,
with respect to the farm, the amount described in subparagraph (B) exceeds the
amount described in subparagraph (C).

“(B) 5-YEAR AVERAGE SUM.—The amount described in this subparagraph, with
respect to a farm, is the sum of—

“(i) the 5-year average of—

“(I) the acreage planted on the farm to all covered commodities for harvest,
grazing, haying, silage or other similar purposes for the 2019 through 2023
crop years; and

“(II) any acreage on the farm that the producers were prevented from planting
during the 2019 through 2023 crop years to covered commodities because of
drought, flood, or other natural disaster, or other condition beyond the
control of the producers, as determined by the Secretary; plus

“(ii) the lesser of—

“(I) 15 percent of the total acres on the farm; and

“(II) the 5-year average of—

“(aa) the acreage planted on the farm to eligible noncovered commodities for
harvest, grazing, haying, silage, or other similar purposes for the 2019
through 2023 crop years; and

“(bb) any acreage on the farm that the producers were prevented from planting
during the 2019 through 2023 crop years to eligible noncovered commodities
because of drought, flood, or other natural disaster, or other condition
beyond the control of the producers, as determined by the Secretary.

“(C) TOTAL NUMBER OF BASE ACRES FOR COVERED COMMODITIES.—The amount described
in this subparagraph, with respect to a farm, is the total number of base
acres for covered commodities on the farm (excluding unassigned crop base), as
in effect on September 30, 2024.

“(D) EFFECT OF NO RECENT PLANTINGS OF COVERED COMMODITIES.—In the case of a
farm for which the amount determined under clause (i) of subparagraph (B) is
equal to zero, that farm shall be ineligible to receive an allocation of base
acres under this subsection.

“(E) ACREAGE PLANTED ON THE FARM TO ELIGIBLE NONCOVERED COMMODITIES
DEFINED.—In this paragraph, the term ‘acreage planted on the farm to eligible
noncovered commodities’ means acreage planted on a farm to commodities other
than covered commodities, trees, bushes, vines, grass, or pasture (including
cropland that was idle or fallow), as determined by the Secretary.

“(5) NUMBER OF BASE ACRES.—Subject to paragraphs (4) and (7), the number of
base acres allocated to an eligible farm shall—

“(A) be equal to the difference obtained by subtracting the amount determined
under subparagraph (C) of paragraph (4) from the amount determined under
subparagraph (B) of that paragraph; and

“(B) include unassigned crop base.

“(6) ALLOCATION OF ACRES.—

“(A) ALLOCATION.—The Secretary shall allocate the number of base acres under
paragraph (5) among those covered commodities planted on the farm at any time
during the 2019 through 2023 crop years.

“(B) ALLOCATION FORMULA.—The allocation of additional base acres for covered
commodities shall be in proportion to the ratio of—

“(i) the 5-year average of—

“(I) the acreage planted on the farm to each covered commodity for harvest,
grazing, haying, silage, or other similar purposes for the 2019 through 2023
crop years; and

“(II) any acreage on the farm that the producers were prevented from planting
during the 2019 through 2023 crop years to that covered commodity because of
drought, flood, or other natural disaster, or other condition beyond the
control of the producers, as determined by the Secretary; to

“(ii) the 5-year average determined under paragraph (4)(B)(i).

“(C) INCLUSION OF ALL 5 YEARS IN AVERAGE.—For the purpose of determining a
5-year acreage average under subparagraph (B) for a farm, the Secretary shall
not exclude any crop year in which a covered commodity was not planted.

“(D) TREATMENT OF MULTIPLE PLANTING OR PREVENTED PLANTING.—For the purpose of
determining under subparagraph (B) the acreage on a farm that producers
planted or were prevented from planting during the 2019 through 2023 crop
years to covered commodities, if the acreage that was planted or prevented
from being planted was devoted to another covered commodity in the same crop
year (other than a covered commodity produced under an established practice of
double cropping), the owner may elect the covered commodity to be used for
that crop year in determining the 5-year average, but may not include both the
initial covered commodity and the subsequent covered commodity.

“(E) LIMITATION.—The allocation of additional base acres among covered
commodities on a farm under this paragraph may not result in a total number of
base acres for the farm in excess of the total number of acres on the farm.

“(7) REDUCTION BY THE SECRETARY.—In carrying out this subsection, if the total
number of eligible acres allocated to base acres across all farms in the
United States under this subsection would exceed 30,000,000 acres, the
Secretary shall apply an across-the-board, pro-rata reduction to the number of
eligible acres to ensure the number of allocated base acres under this
subsection is equal to 30,000,000 acres.

“(8) PAYMENT YIELD.—Beginning with crop year 2026, for the purpose of making
price loss coverage payments under section 1116, the Secretary shall establish
payment yields to base acres allocated under this subsection equal to—

“(A) the payment yield established on the farm for the applicable covered
commodity; and

“(B) if no such payment yield for the applicable covered commodity exists, a
payment yield—

“(i) equal to the average payment yield for the covered commodity for the
county in which the farm is situated; or

“(ii) determined pursuant to section 1113(c).

“(9) TREATMENT OF NEW OWNERS.—In the case of a farm for which the owner on the
date of enactment of this subsection was not the owner for the 2019 through
2023 crop years, the Secretary shall use the planting history of the prior
owner or owners of that farm for purposes of determining—

“(A) eligibility under paragraph (4);

“(B) eligible acres under paragraph (5); and

“(C) the allocation of acres under paragraph (6).”.

(c) Producer election.—Section 1115 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9015](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9015)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking
“2023” and inserting “2031”; and

(2) in subsection (c)—

(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking “2014 crop year or the
2019 crop year, as applicable” and inserting “2014 crop year, 2019 crop year,
or 2026 crop year, as applicable”;

(B) in paragraph (1), by striking “2014 crop year or the 2019 crop year, as
applicable,” and inserting “2014 crop year, 2019 crop year, or 2026 crop year,
as applicable,”; and

(C) in paragraph (2)—

(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking “and” at the end;

(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting “;
and”; and

(iii) by adding at the end the following:

“(C) the same coverage for each covered commodity on the farm for the 2026
through 2031 crop years as was applicable for the 2024 crop year.”.

(d) Price loss coverage.—Section 1116 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7
U.S.C.
9016](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9016)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (a)(2), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by
striking “2023” and inserting “2031”;

(2) in subsection (c)(1)(B)—

(A) in the subparagraph heading, by striking “2023” and inserting “2031”; and

(B) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking “2023” and inserting
“2031”;

(3) in subsection (d), by striking “2025” and inserting “2031”; and

(4) in subsection (g), by striking “2012 through 2016” each place it appears
and inserting “2017 through 2021”.

(e) Agriculture risk coverage.—Section 1117 of the Agricultural Act of 2014
([7 U.S.C.
9017](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9017)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
“2023” and inserting “2031”;

(2) in subsection (c)—

(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting “for each of the 2014 through 2024 crop
years and 90 percent of the benchmark revenue for each of the 2025 through
2031 crop years” before the period at the end;

(B) by striking “2023” each place it appears and inserting “2031”; and

(C) in paragraph (4)(B), in the subparagraph heading, by striking “2023” and
inserting “2031”;

(3) by amending subsection (d)(1)(B) to read as follows:

“(B) (i) for each of the crop years 2014 through 2024, 10 percent of the
benchmark revenue for the crop year applicable under subsection (c); and

“(ii) for each of the crop years 2025 __through 2031, 12.5 percent of the
benchmark revenue for the crop year applicable under subsection (c).”; and

(4) in subsections (e), (g)(5), and (i)(5), by striking “2023” each place it
appears and inserting “2031”.

(f) Equitable treatment of certain entities.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1001 of the Food Security Act of 1985 ([7 U.S.C.
1308](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1308)) is
amended—

(A) in subsection (a)—

(i) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and

(ii) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:

“(5) QUALIFIED PASS-THROUGH ENTITY.—The term ‘qualified pass-through entity’
means—

“(A) a partnership (within the meaning of subchapter K of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986);

“(B) an S corporation (as defined in section 1361 of that Code);

“(C) a limited liability company that does not affirmatively elect to be
treated as a corporation; and

“(D) a joint venture or general partnership.”;

(B) in subsections (b) and (c), by striking “except a joint venture or general
partnership” each place it appears and inserting “except a qualified pass-
through entity”; and

(C) in subsection (d), by striking “subtitle B” and all that follows through
the end and inserting “title I of the Agricultural Act of 2014.”.

(2) ATTRIBUTION OF PAYMENTS.—Section 1001(e)(3)(B)(ii) of the Food Security
Act of 1985 ([7 U.S.C.
1308(e)(3)(B)(ii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1308))
is amended—

(A) in the clause heading, by striking “joint ventures and general
partnerships” and inserting “qualified pass-through entities”;

(B) by striking “a joint venture or a general partnership” and inserting “a
qualified pass-through entity”;

(C) by striking “joint ventures and general partnerships” and inserting
“qualified pass-through entities”; and

(D) by striking “the joint venture or general partnership” and inserting “the
qualified pass-through entity”.

(3) PERSONS ACTIVELY ENGAGED IN FARMING.—Section 1001A(b)(2) of the Food
Security Act of 1985 ([7 U.S.C.
1308–1(b)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1308-1))
is amended—

(A) in subparagraphs (A) and (B), by striking “in a general partnership, a
participant in a joint venture” each place it appears and inserting “a
qualified pass-through entity”; and

(B) in subparagraph (C), by striking “a general partnership, joint venture, or
similar entity” and inserting “a qualified pass-through entity or a similar
entity”.

(4) JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY.—Section 1001B(d) of the Food Security Act of
1985 ([7 U.S.C.
1308–2(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1308-2))
is amended by striking “partnerships and joint ventures” and inserting
“qualified pass-through entities”.

(5) EXCLUSION FROM AGI CALCULATION.—Section 1001D(d) of the Food Security Act
of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308–3a(d)) is amended by striking “, general partnership,
or joint venture” each place it appears.

(g) Payment limitations.—Section 1001 of the Food Security Act of 1985 ([7
U.S.C.
1308](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1308)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (b)—

(A) by striking “The” and inserting “Subject to subsection (i), the”; and

(B) by striking “$125,000” and inserting “$155,000”;

(2) in subsection (c)—

(A) by striking “The” and inserting “Subject to subsection (i), the”; and

(B) by striking “$125,000” and inserting “$155,000”; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

“(i) Adjustment.—For the 2025 crop year and each crop year thereafter, the
Secretary shall annually adjust the amounts described in subsections (b) and
(c) for inflation based on the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers
published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor.”.

(h) Adjusted gross income limitation.—Section 1001D(b) of the Food Security
Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308–3a(b)) is amended—

(1) in paragraph (1), by striking “paragraph (3)” and inserting “paragraphs
(3) and (4)”; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

“(4) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN OPERATIONS.—

“(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:

“(i) EXCEPTED PAYMENT OR BENEFIT.—The term ‘excepted payment or benefit’
means—

“(I) a payment or benefit under subtitle E of title I of the Agricultural Act
of 2014 ([7 U.S.C. 9081 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9081));

“(II) a payment or benefit under section 196 of the Federal Agriculture
Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 ([7 U.S.C.
7333](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=7333)); and

“(III) a payment or benefit described in paragraph (2)(C) received on or after
October 1, 2024.

“(ii) FARMING, RANCHING, OR SILVICULTURE ACTIVITIES.—The term ‘farming,
ranching, or silviculture activities’ includes agritourism, direct-to-consumer
marketing of agricultural products, the sale of agricultural equipment by a
person or legal entity that owns such equipment, and other agriculture-related
activities, as determined by the Secretary.

“(B) EXCEPTION.—In the case of an excepted payment or benefit, the limitation
established by paragraph (1) shall not apply to a person or legal entity
during a crop, fiscal, or program year, as appropriate, if greater than or
equal to 75 percent of the average gross income of the person or legal entity
derives from farming, ranching, or silviculture activities.”.

(i) Marketing loans.—

(1) AVAILABILITY OF NONRECOURSE MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS FOR LOAN
COMMODITIES.—Section 1201(b)(1) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9031(b)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9031))
is amended by striking “2023” and inserting “2031”.

(2) LOAN RATES FOR NONRECOURSE MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS.—Section 1202 of the
Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9032](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9032)) is
amended—

(A) in subsection (b)—

(i) in the subsection heading, by striking “2023” and inserting “2025”; and

(ii) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking “2023” and inserting
“2025”;

(B) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (d) and (e),
respectively;

(C) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:

“(c) 2026 through 2031 crop years.—For purposes of each of the 2026 through
2031 crop years, the loan rate for a marketing assistance loan under section
1201 for a loan commodity shall be equal to the following:

“(1) In the case of wheat, $3.72 per bushel.

“(2) In the case of corn, $2.42 per bushel.

“(3) In the case of grain sorghum, $2.42 per bushel.

“(4) In the case of barley, $2.75 per bushel.

“(5) In the case of oats, $2.20 per bushel.

“(6) In the case of upland cotton, $0.55 per pound.

“(7) In the case of extra long staple cotton, $1.00 per pound.

“(8) In the case of long grain rice, $7.70 per hundredweight.

“(9) In the case of medium grain rice, $7.70 per hundredweight.

“(10) In the case of soybeans, $6.82 per bushel.

“(11) In the case of other oilseeds, $11.10 per hundredweight for each of the
following kinds of oilseeds:

“(A) Sunflower seed.

“(B) Rapeseed.

“(C) Canola.

“(D) Safflower.

“(E) Flaxseed.

“(F) Mustard seed.

“(G) Crambe.

“(H) Sesame seed.

“(I) Other oilseeds designated by the Secretary.

“(12) In the case of dry peas, $6.87 per hundredweight.

“(13) In the case of lentils, $14.30 per hundredweight.

“(14) In the case of small chickpeas, $11.00 per hundredweight.

“(15) In the case of large chickpeas, $15.40 per hundredweight.

“(16) In the case of graded wool, $1.60 per pound.

“(17) In the case of nongraded wool, $0.55 per pound.

“(18) In the case of mohair, $5.00 per pound.

“(19) In the case of honey, $1.50 per pound.

“(20) In the case of peanuts, $390 per ton.”;

(D) in subsection (d) (as so redesignated), by striking “(a)(11) and (b)(11)”
and inserting “(a)(11), (b)(11), and (c)(11)”; and

(E) by amending subsection (e) (as so redesignated) to read as follows:

“(e) Special rule for seed cotton and corn.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section 1116(b)(2) and paragraphs (1)(B)(ii)
and (2)(A)(ii)(II) of section 1117(b), the loan rate shall be deemed to equal—

“(A) for seed cotton, $0.30 per pound; and

“(B) for corn, $3.30 per bushel.

“(2) EFFECT.—Nothing in this subsection authorizes any nonrecourse marketing
assistance loan under this subtitle for seed cotton.”.

(3) PAYMENT OF COTTON STORAGE COSTS.—Section 1204(g) of the Agricultural Act
of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9034(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9034)) is
amended—

(A) by striking “Effective” and inserting the following:

“(1) CROP YEARS 2014 THROUGH 2025.—Effective”;

(B) in paragraph (1) (as so designated), by striking “2023” and inserting
“2025”; and

(C) by adding at the end the following:

“(2) PAYMENT OF COTTON STORAGE COSTS.—Effective for each of the 2026 through
2031 crop years, the Secretary shall make cotton storage payments for upland
cotton and extra long staple cotton available in the same manner as the
Secretary provided storage payments for the 2006 crop of upland cotton, except
that the payment rate shall be equal to the lesser of—

“(A) the submitted tariff rate for the current marketing year; and

“(B) in the case of storage in—

“(i) California or Arizona, a payment rate of $4.90; and

“(ii) any other State, a payment rate of $3.00.”.

(4) LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.—

(A) CONTINUATION.—Section 1205(a)(2)(B) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7
U.S.C.
9035(a)(2)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9035))
is amended by striking “2023” and inserting “2031”.

(B) PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF LDPS.—Section 1206 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7
U.S.C.
9036](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9036)) is
amended, in subsections (a) and (d), by striking “2023” each place it appears
and inserting “2031”.

(5) SPECIAL COMPETITIVE PROVISIONS FOR EXTRA LONG STAPLE COTTON.—Section
1208(a) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9038(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9038)) is
amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking “2026” and
inserting “2032”.

(6) AVAILABILITY OF RECOURSE LOANS.—Section 1209 of the Agricultural Act of
2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9039](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9039)) is
amended, in subsections (a)(2), (b), and (c), by striking “2023” each place it
appears and inserting “2031”.

(j) Repayment of marketing loans.—Section 1204 of the Agricultural Act of 2014
([7 U.S.C.
9034](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9034)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (b)—

(A) by redesignating paragraph (1) as subparagraph (A) and indenting
appropriately;

(B) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) (as so redesignated), by striking
“The Secretary” and inserting the following:

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary”; and

(C) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:

“(B) (i) in the case of long grain rice and medium grain rice, the prevailing
world market price for the commodity, as determined and adjusted by the
Secretary in accordance with this section; or

“(ii) in the case of upland cotton, the lowest prevailing world market price
for the commodity, as determined and adjusted by the Secretary in accordance
with this section, during the 30-day period following the day on which the
producer repays the marketing assistance loan.

“(2) REFUND FOR UPLAND COTTON.—In the case of a repayment for a marketing
assistance loan for upland cotton at a rate described in paragraph (1)(B)(ii),
the Secretary shall provide to the producer a refund (if any) in an amount
equal to the difference between the lowest prevailing world market price
described in that paragraph and the repayment amount.”;

(2) in subsection (c)—

(A) by striking the period at the end and inserting “; and”;

(B) by striking “at the loan rate” and inserting the following: “at a rate
that is the lesser of—

“(1) the loan rate”; and

(C) by adding at the end the following:

“(2) the prevailing world market price for the commodity, as determined and
adjusted by the Secretary in accordance with this section.”;

(3) in subsection (d)—

(A) in paragraph (1), by striking “and medium grain rice” and inserting
“medium grain rice, and extra long staple cotton”;

(B) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and (B),
respectively, and indenting appropriately;

(C) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) (as so redesignated), by striking
“For purposes” and inserting the following:

“(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes”; and

(D) by adding at the end the following:

“(2) UPLAND COTTON.—In the case of upland cotton, for any period when price
quotations for Middling (M) 13⁄32 -inch cotton are available, the formula
under paragraph (1)(A) shall be based on the average of the 3 lowest-priced
growths that are quoted.”; and

(4) in subsection (e)—

(A) in the subsection heading, by inserting “extra long staple cotton,” after
“Upland cotton,”;

(B) in paragraph (2)—

(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking “Cotton” and inserting “Upland
Cotton”; and

(ii) in subparagraph (B), in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking
“2024” and inserting “2032”;

(C) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and

(D) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:

“(3) EXTRA LONG STAPLE COTTON.—The prevailing world market price for extra
long staple cotton determined under subsection (d)—

“(A) shall be adjusted to United States quality and location, with the
adjustment to include the average costs to market the commodity, including
average transportation costs, as determined by the Secretary; and

“(B) may be further adjusted, during the period beginning on the date of
enactment of this paragraph and ending on July 31, 2032, if the Secretary
determines the adjustment is necessary—

“(i) to minimize potential loan forfeitures;

“(ii) to minimize the accumulation of stocks of extra long staple cotton by
the Federal Government;

“(iii) to ensure that extra long staple cotton produced in the United States
can be marketed freely and competitively; and

“(iv) to ensure an appropriate transition between current-crop and forward-
crop price quotations, except that the Secretary may use forward-crop price
quotations prior to July 31 of a marketing year only if—

“(I) there are insufficient current-crop price quotations; and

“(II) the forward-crop price quotation is the lowest such quotation
available.”.

(k) Economic adjustment assistance for textile mills.—Section 1207(c) of the
Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9037(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9037)) is
amended by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:

“(2) VALUE OF ASSISTANCE.—The value of the assistance provided under paragraph
(1) shall be—

“(A) for the period beginning on August 1, 2013, and ending on July 31, 2025,
3 cents per pound; and

“(B) beginning on August 1, 2025, 5 cents per pound.”.

(l) Sugar program updates.—

(1) LOAN RATE MODIFICATIONS.—Section 156 of the Federal Agriculture
Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 ([7 U.S.C.
7272](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=7272)) is
amended—

(A) in subsection (a)—

(i) in paragraph (4), by striking “and” at the end;

(ii) in paragraph (5), by striking “2023 crop years.” and inserting “2024 crop
years; and”; and

(iii) by adding at the end the following:

“(6) 24.00 cents per pound for raw cane sugar for each of the 2025 through
2031 crop years.”;

(B) in subsection (b)—

(i) in paragraph (1), by striking “and” at the end;

(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking “2023 crop years.” and inserting “2024 crop
years; and”; and

(iii) by adding at the end the following:

“(3) a rate that is equal to 136.55 percent of the loan rate per pound of raw
cane sugar under subsection (a)(6) for each of the 2025 through 2031 crop
years.”; and

(C) in subsection (i), by striking “2023” and inserting “2031”.

(2) ADJUSTMENTS TO COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION STORAGE RATES.—Section 167 of
the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 ([7 U.S.C.
7287](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=7287)) is
amended—

(A) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:

“(a) In general.—The Commodity Credit Corporation shall establish rates for
the storage of forfeited sugar in an amount that is not less than—

“(1) in the case of refined sugar, 34 cents per hundredweight per month; and

“(2) in the case of raw cane sugar, 27 cents per hundredweight per month.”;
and

(B) in subsection (b)—

(i) in the subsection heading, by striking “Subsequent” and inserting “Prior”;
and

(ii) by striking “and subsequent” and inserting “through 2024”.

(3) MODERNIZING BEET SUGAR ALLOTMENTS.—

(A) SUGAR ESTIMATES.—Section 359b(a)(1) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of
1938 ([7 U.S.C.
1359bb(a)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1359bb))
is amended by striking “2023” and inserting “2031”.

(B) ALLOCATION TO PROCESSORS.—Section 359c(g)(2) of the Agricultural
Adjustment Act of 1938 ([7 U.S.C.
1359cc(g)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1359cc))
is amended—

(i) by striking “In the case” and inserting the following:

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), in the case”; and

(ii) by adding at the end the following:

“(B) EXCEPTION.—If the Secretary makes an upward adjustment under paragraph
(1)(A), in adjusting allocations among beet sugar processors, the Secretary
shall give priority to beet sugar processors with available sugar.”.

(C) TIMING OF REASSIGNMENT.—Section 359e(b)(2) of the Agricultural Adjustment
Act of 1938 ([7 U.S.C.
1359ee(b)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1359ee))
is amended—

(i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (C) as clauses (i) through
(iii), respectively, and indenting appropriately;

(ii) in the matter preceding clause (i) (as so redesignated), by striking “If
the Secretary determines that a sugar beet processor who has been allocated a
share of the beet sugar allotment will be unable to market that allocation”
and inserting the following:

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary determines that a sugar beet processor who
has been allocated a share of the beet sugar allotment for the crop year will
be unable to market that allocation”; and

(iii) by adding at the end the following:

“(B) TIMING.—In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall—

“(i) make an initial determination following the publication of the World
Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates (in this subparagraph referred to as
‘WASDE’) approved by the World Agricultural Outlook Board for the month of
January that is applicable to the crop year for which a determination under
subparagraph (A) is made; and

“(ii) provide for an initial reassignment under subparagraph (A)(i) not later
than 30 days after the date of the announcement of such WASDE.”.

(4) REALLOCATIONS OF TARIFF-RATE QUOTA SHORTFALL.—Section 359k of the
Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 ([7 U.S.C.
1359kk](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1359kk))
is amended by adding at the end the following:

“(c) Reallocation.—

“(1) INITIAL REALLOCATION.—Subject to paragraph (3), following the
establishment of the tariff-rate quotas under subsection (a) for a quota year,
the Secretary shall—

“(A) determine which countries do not intend to fulfill their allocation for
the quota year; and

“(B) reallocate any forecasted shortfall in the fulfillment of the tariff-rate
quotas as soon as practicable.

“(2) SUBSEQUENT REALLOCATION.—Subject to paragraph (3), not later than March 1
of a quota year, the Secretary shall reallocate any additional forecasted
shortfall in the fulfillment of the tariff-rate quotas for raw cane sugar
established under subsection (a)(1) for that quota year.

“(3) CESSATION OF EFFECTIVENESS.—Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall cease to be in
effect if—

“(A) the Agreement Suspending the Countervailing Duty Investigation on Sugar
from Mexico, signed December 19, 2014, is terminated; and

“(B) no countervailing duty order under subtitle A of title VII of the Tariff
Act of 1930 ([19 U.S.C. 1671 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=19&section=1671)) is
in effect with respect to sugar from Mexico.

“(d) Refined sugar.—

“(1) DEFINITION OF DOMESTIC SUGAR INDUSTRY.—In this subsection, the term
‘domestic sugar industry’ means domestic—

“(A) sugar beet producers and processors;

“(B) producers and processors of sugar cane; and

“(C) refiners of raw cane sugar.

“(2) STUDY REQUIRED.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this
subsection, the Secretary shall conduct a study on whether the establishment
of additional terms and conditions with respect to refined sugar imports is
necessary and appropriate.

“(B) ELEMENTS.—In conducting the study under subparagraph (A), the Secretary
shall examine the following:

“(i) The need for—

“(I) defining ‘refined sugar’ as having a minimum polarization of 99.8 degrees
or higher;

“(II) establishing a standard for color- or reflectance-based units for
refined sugar such as those utilized by the International Commission of
Uniform Methods of Sugar Analysis;

“(III) prescribing specifications for packaging type for refined sugar;

“(IV) prescribing specifications for transportation modes for refined sugar;

“(V) requiring affidavits or other evidence that sugar imported as refined
sugar will not undergo further refining in the United States;

“(VI) prescribing appropriate terms and conditions to avoid unlawful sugar
imports; and

“(VII) establishing other definitions, terms and conditions, or other
requirements.

“(ii) The potential impact of modifications described in each of subclauses
(I) through (VII) of clause (i) on the domestic sugar industry.

“(iii) Whether, based on the needs described in clause (i) and the impact
described in clause (ii), the establishment of additional terms and conditions
is appropriate.

“(C) CONSULTATION.—In conducting the study under subparagraph (A), the
Secretary shall consult with representatives of the domestic sugar industry
and users of refined sugar.

“(D) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this
subsection, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the
House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry of the Senate a report that describes the findings of the study
conducted under subparagraph (A).

“(3) ESTABLISHMENT OF ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS PERMITTED.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Based on the findings in the report submitted under paragraph
(2)(D), and after providing notice to the Committee on Agriculture of the
House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry of the Senate, the Secretary may issue regulations in accordance with
subparagraph (B) to establish additional terms and conditions with respect to
refined sugar imports that are necessary and appropriate.

“(B) PROMULGATION OF REGULATIONS.—The Secretary may issue regulations under
subparagraph (A) if the regulations—

“(i) do not have an adverse impact on the domestic sugar industry; and

“(ii) are consistent with the requirements of this part, section 156 of the
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 ([7 U.S.C.
7272](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=7272)), and
obligations under international trade agreements that have been approved by
Congress.”.

(5) CLARIFICATION OF TARIFF-RATE QUOTA ADJUSTMENTS.—Section 359k(b)(1) of the
Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 ([7 U.S.C.
1359kk(b)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1359kk))
is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking “if there is
an” and inserting “for the sole purpose of responding directly to an”

(6) PERIOD OF EFFECTIVENESS.—Section 359l(a) of the Agricultural Adjustment
Act of 1938 ([7 U.S.C.
1359ll(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1359ll))
is amended by striking “2023” and inserting “2031”.

(m) Dairy policy updates.—

(1) DAIRY MARGIN COVERAGE PRODUCTION HISTORY.—

(A) DEFINITION.—Section 1401(8) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9051(8)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9051)) is
amended by striking “when the participating dairy operation first registers to
participate in dairy margin coverage”.

(B) PRODUCTION HISTORY OF PARTICIPATING DAIRY OPERATIONS.—Section 1405 of the
Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9055](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9055)) is
amended—

(i) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:

“(a) Production history.—Except as provided in subsection (b), the production
history of a dairy operation for dairy margin coverage is equal to the highest
annual milk marketings of the participating dairy operation during any one of
the 2021, 2022, or 2023 calendar years.”; and

(ii) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:

“(b) Election by new dairy operations.—In the case of a participating dairy
operation that has been in operation for less than a year, the participating
dairy operation shall elect 1 of the following methods for the Secretary to
determine the production history of the participating dairy operation:

“(1) The volume of the actual milk marketings for the months the participating
dairy operation has been in operation extrapolated to a yearly amount.

“(2) An estimate of the actual milk marketings of the participating dairy
operation based on the herd size of the participating dairy operation relative
to the national rolling herd average data published by the Secretary.”.

(2) DAIRY MARGIN COVERAGE PAYMENTS.—Section 1406(a)(1)(C) of the Agricultural
Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9056(a)(1)(C)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9056))
is amended by striking “5,000,000” and inserting “6,000,000” each place it
appears.

(3) PREMIUMS FOR DAIRY MARGINS.—

(A) TIER I.—Section 1407(b) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9057(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9057)) is
amended—

(i) in the heading, by striking “5,000,000” and inserting “6,000,000”; and

(ii) in paragraph (1), by striking “5,000,000” and inserting “6,000,000”.

(B) TIER II.—Section 1407(c) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9057(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9057)) is
amended—

(i) in the heading, by striking “5,000,000” and inserting “6,000,000”; and

(ii) in paragraph (1), by striking “5,000,000” and inserting “6,000,000”.

(C) PREMIUM DISCOUNTS.—Section 1407(g) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7
U.S.C.
9057(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9057)) is
amended—

(i) in paragraph (1)—

(I) by striking “2019 through 2023” and inserting “2026 through 2031”; and

(II) by striking “January 2019” and inserting “January 2026”; and

(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking “2023” each place it appears and inserting
“2031”.

(4) DURATION.—Section 1409 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9059](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9059)) is
amended by striking “2025” and inserting “2031”.

(n) Suspension of permanent price support authority.—Section 1602 of the
Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9092](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9092)) is
amended by striking “2023” each place it appears and inserting “2031”.

(o) Implementation.—Section 1614(c) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9097(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9097)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:

“(5) FISCAL YEAR 2025 RECONCILIATION.— __The Secretary shall make available to
the Farm Service Agency to carry out section 10101 of the Act titled ‘An Act
to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of H. Con. Res. 14’, and
the amendments made by that section, $50,000,000, to remain available until
expended, of which—

“(A) not less than $5,000,000 shall be used to carry out paragraphs (3) and
(4) of subsection (b);

“(B) $3,000,000 shall be used for activities described in paragraph (3)(A) of
this subsection;

“(C) $3,000,000 shall be used for activities described in paragraph (3)(B) of
this subsection; and

“(D) $10,000,000 shall be used to—

“(i) carry out mandatory surveys of dairy production cost and product yield
information to be reported by manufacturers required to report under section
273 of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 ([7 U.S.C.
1637b](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1637b)),
for all products processed in the same facility or facilities; and

“(ii) publish the results of such surveys biennially.”.

(p) Livestock safety net updates.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1501(b) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9081(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9081)) is
amended—

(A) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:

“(2) PAYMENT RATES.—

“(A) LOSSES DUE TO PREDATION.—Indemnity payments to an eligible producer on a
farm under paragraph (1)(A) shall be made at a rate of 100 percent of the
market value of the affected livestock on the applicable date, as determined
by the Secretary.

“(B) LOSSES DUE TO ADVERSE WEATHER OR DISEASE.—Indemnity payments to an
eligible producer on a farm under subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (1)
shall be made at a rate of 75 percent of the market value of the affected
livestock on the applicable date, as determined by the Secretary.

“(C) DETERMINATION OF MARKET VALUE.—In determining the market value described
in subparagraphs (A) and (B), the Secretary may consider the ability of
eligible producers to document regional price premiums for affected livestock
that exceed the national average market price for those livestock.

“(D) APPLICABLE DATE DEFINED.—In this paragraph, the term ‘applicable date’
means, with respect to livestock, as applicable—

“(i) the day before the date of death of the livestock; or

“(ii) the day before the date of the event that caused the harm to the
livestock that resulted in a reduced sale price.”; and

(B) by adding at the end the following:

“(5) ADDITIONAL PAYMENT FOR UNBORN LIVESTOCK.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of unborn livestock death losses incurred on or
after January 1, 2024, the Secretary shall make an additional payment to
eligible producers on farms that have incurred such losses in excess of the
normal mortality due to a condition specified in paragraph (1).

“(B) PAYMENT RATE.—Additional payments under subparagraph (A) shall be made at
a rate—

“(i) determined by the Secretary; and

“(ii) less than or equal to 85 percent of the payment rate established with
respect to the lowest weight class of the livestock, as determined by the
Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Farm Service Agency.

“(C) PAYMENT AMOUNT.—The amount of a payment to an eligible producer that has
incurred unborn livestock death losses shall be equal to the payment rate
determined under subparagraph (B) multiplied, in the case of livestock
described in—

“(i) subparagraph (A), (B), or (F) of subsection (a)(4), by 1;

“(ii) subparagraph (D) of such subsection, by 2;

“(iii) subparagraph (E) of such subsection, by 12; and

“(iv) subparagraph (G) of such subsection, by the average number of birthed
animals (for one gestation cycle) for the species of each such livestock, as
determined by the Secretary.

“(D) UNBORN LIVESTOCK DEATH LOSSES DEFINED.—In this paragraph, the term
‘unborn livestock death losses’ means losses of any livestock described in
subparagraph (A), (B), (D), (E), (F), or (G) of subsection (a)(4) that was
gestating on the date of the death of the livestock.”.

(2) LIVESTOCK FORAGE DISASTER PROGRAM.—Section 1501(c)(3)(D)(ii)(I) of the
Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9081(c)(3)(D)(ii)(I)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9081))
is amended—

(A) by striking “1 monthly payment” and inserting “2 monthly payments”; and

(B) by striking “county for at least 8 consecutive” and inserting the
following: “county for not less than—

“(aa) 4 consecutive weeks during the normal grazing period for the county, as
determined by the Secretary, shall be eligible to receive assistance under
this paragraph in an amount equal to 1 monthly payment using the monthly
payment rate determined under subparagraph (B); or

“(bb) any of the 7 of the previous 8 consecutive”.

(3) EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE FOR LIVESTOCK, HONEY BEES, AND FARM-RAISED
FISH.—Section 1501(d) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
9081(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9081)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:

“(5) ASSISTANCE FOR LOSSES DUE TO BIRD DEPREDATION.—

“(A) PAYMENTS.—Eligible producers on a farm of farm-raised fish, including
fish grown as food for human consumption, shall be eligible to receive
payments under this subsection to aid in the reduction of losses due to
piscivorous birds.

“(B) PAYMENT RATE.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The payment rate for payments under subparagraph (B) shall be
determined by the Secretary, taking into account—

“(I) costs associated with the deterrence of piscivorous birds;

“(II) the value of lost fish and revenue due to bird depredation; and

“(III) costs associated with disease loss from bird depredation.

“(ii) MINIMUM RATE.—The payment rate for payments under subparagraph (B) shall
be not less than $600 per acre of farm-raised fish.

“(C) PAYMENT AMOUNT.—The amount of a payment under subparagraph (B) shall be
the product obtained by multiplying—

“(i) the applicable payment rate under subparagraph (C); and

“(ii) 85 percent of the total number of acres of farm-raised fish farms that
the eligible producer has in production for the calendar year.”.

(4) TREE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.—Section 1501(e) of the Agricultural Act of 2014
([7 U.S.C.
9081(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9081)) is
amended—

(A) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking “15 percent (adjusted for normal
mortality)” and inserting “normal mortality”; and

(B) in paragraph (3)—

(i) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking “15 percent mortality (adjusted for
normal mortality)” and inserting “normal mortality”; and

(ii) in subparagraph (B)—

(I) by striking “50” and inserting “65”; and

(II) by striking “15 percent damage or mortality (adjusted for normal tree
damage and mortality)” and inserting “normal tree damage or mortality”.

(q) Emergency assistance for honeybees.—In determining honeybee colony losses
eligible for assistance under section 1501(d) of the Agricultural Act of 2014
([7 U.S.C.
9081(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=9081)),
the Secretary shall utilize a normal mortality rate of 15 percent.

(r) Beginning farmer and rancher benefit.—

(1) DEFINITIONS.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 502(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act ([7 U.S.C.
1502(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1502)) is
amended in paragraph (3), by striking “5” and inserting “10”.

(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 522(c)(7) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act
([7 U.S.C.
1522(c)(7)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1522))
is amended by striking subparagraph (F).

(2) INCREASE IN ASSISTANCE.—Section 508(e) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act
([7 U.S.C.
1508(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1508)) is
amended by adding at the end the following paragraph:

“(9) ADDITIONAL SUPPORT.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection
regarding payment of a portion of premiums, a beginning farmer or rancher
shall receive premium assistance that is—

“(i) the number of percentage points specified in subparagraph (B) greater
than the premium assistance that would otherwise be available under paragraphs
(2) (except for subparagraph (A) of that paragraph), (5), (6), and (7) for the
applicable policy, plan of insurance, and coverage level selected by the
beginning farmer or rancher; plus

“(ii) any increase otherwise made available under this subsection.

“(B) PERCENTAGE POINTS ADJUSTMENTS.—The percentage points referred to in
subparagraph (A)(i) are the following:

“(i) For each of the first and second reinsurance years that a beginning
farmer or rancher participates as a beginning farmer or rancher in the
applicable policy or plan of insurance, 5 percentage points.

“(ii) For the third reinsurance year that a beginning farmer or rancher
participates as a beginning farmer or rancher in the applicable policy or plan
of insurance, 3 percentage points.

“(iii) For the fourth reinsurance year that a beginning farmer or rancher
participates as a beginning farmer or rancher in the applicable policy or plan
of insurance, 1 percentage point.”.

(s) Area-based crop insurance coverage and affordability.—

(1) COVERAGE LEVEL.—Section 508(c)(4) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act ([7
U.S.C.
1508(c)(4)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1508))
is amended—

(A) by amending subparagraph (A)(ii) to read as follows:

“(ii) may be purchased at any level not to exceed—

“(I) in the case of the individual yield or revenue coverage, 85 percent;

“(II) in the case of individual yield or revenue coverage aggregated across
multiple commodities, 90 percent; and

“(III) in the case of area yield or revenue coverage (as determined by the
Corporation), 95 percent.”; and

(B) in subparagraph (C)—

(i) in clause (ii), by striking “14” and inserting “10”; and

(ii) in clause (iii)(I), by striking “86” and inserting “90”.

(2) PREMIUM COST SHARE.—Section 508(e)(2)(H)(i) of the Federal Crop Insurance
Act ([7 U.S.C.
1508(e)(2)(H)(i)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1508))
is amended by striking “65” and inserting “80”.

(t) Premium support.—Section 508(e)(2) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act ([7
U.S.C.
1508(e)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1508))
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (C)(i), by striking “64” and inserting “69”;

(2) in subparagraph (D)(i), by striking “59” and inserting “64”;

(3) in subparagraph (E)(i), by striking “55” and inserting “60”;

(4) in subparagraph (F)(i), by striking “48” and inserting “51”; and

(5) in subparagraph (G)(i), by striking “38” and inserting “41”.

(u) Administrative and operating expense adjustments.—Section 508(k) of the
Federal Crop Insurance Act ([7 U.S.C.
1508(k)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1508)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:

“(10) ADDITIONAL EXPENSES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Beginning with the 2026 reinsurance year and for each
reinsurance year thereafter, in addition to the terms and conditions of the
Standard Reinsurance Agreement, to cover additional expenses for loss
adjustment procedures, the Corporation shall pay an additional administrative
and operating expense subsidy to approved insurance providers for eligible
contracts.

“(B) PAYMENT AMOUNT.—In the case of an eligible contract, the payment to an
approved insurance provider required under subparagraph (A) shall be the
amount equal to 6 percent of the net book premium.

“(C) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:

“(i) ELIGIBLE STATE.—The term ‘eligible State’ means a State—

“(I) identified in State Group 2 or State Group 3 (as defined in the Standard
Reinsurance Agreement for reinsurance year 2026); and

“(II) in which, with respect to an insurance year, the loss ratio for eligible
contracts is greater than 120 percent of the total net book premium written by
all approved insurance providers.

“(ii) ELIGIBLE CONTRACTS.—The term ‘eligible contract’—

“(I) means a crop insurance contract entered into by an approved insurance
provider in an eligible State; and

“(II) does not include a contract for—

“(aa) catastrophic risk protection under subsection (b);

“(bb) an area-based plan of insurance or similar plan of insurance, as
determined by the Corporation; or

“(cc) a policy under which an approved insurance provider does not incur loss
adjustment expenses, as determined by the Corporation.

“(11) SPECIALTY CROPS.—

“(A) MINIMUM REIMBURSEMENT.—Beginning with the 2026 reinsurance year and for
each reinsurance year thereafter, the rate of reimbursement to approved
insurance providers and agents for administrative and operating expenses with
respect to crop insurance contracts covering agricultural commodities
described in section 101 of title I of the Specialty Crops Competitiveness Act
of 2004 ([7 U.S.C.
1621](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1621) note)
shall be equal to or greater than the percent that is the greater of the
following:

“(i) 17 percent of the premium used to define loss ratio.

“(ii) The percent of the premium used to define loss ratio that is otherwise
applicable for the reinsurance year under the terms of the Standard
Reinsurance Agreement in effect for the reinsurance year.

“(B) OTHER CONTRACTS.—In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Corporation shall
not reduce, with respect to any reinsurance year, the amount or the rate of
reimbursement to approved insurance providers and agents under the Standard
Reinsurance Agreement described in clause (ii) of such subparagraph for
administrative and operating expenses with respect to contracts covering
agricultural commodities that are not subject to such subparagraph.

“(C) ADMINISTRATION.—The requirements of this paragraph and the adjustments
made pursuant to this paragraph shall not be considered a renegotiation under
paragraph (8)(A).

“(12) A&O INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph (B), for the 2026 reinsurance year,
and each reinsurance year thereafter, the Corporation shall increase the total
administrative and operating expense reimbursements otherwise required under
the Standard Reinsurance Agreement in effect for the reinsurance year in order
to account for inflation, in a manner consistent with the increases provided
with respect to the 2011 through 2015 reinsurance years under the enclosure
included in Risk Management Agency Bulletin numbered MGR–10–007 and dated June
30, 2010.

“(B) SPECIAL RULE FOR 2026 REINSURANCE YEAR.—The increase under subparagraph
(A) for the 2026 reinsurance year shall not exceed the percentage change for
the preceding reinsurance year included in the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department
of Labor.

“(C) ADMINISTRATION.—An increase under subparagraph (A)—

“(i) shall apply with respect to all contracts covering agricultural
commodities that were subject to an increase during the period of the 2011
through 2015 reinsurance years under the enclosure referred to in that
subparagraph; and

“(ii) shall not be considered to be a renegotiation of the Standard
Reinsurance Agreement for purposes of paragraph (8)(A).”.

(v) Program compliance and integrity.—Section 515(l)(2) of the Federal Crop
Insurance Act ([7 U.S.C.
1515(l)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1515))
is amended by striking “than” and all that follows through the period at the
end and inserting the following: “than—

“(A) $4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2025; and

“(B) $6,000,000 for fiscal year 2026 and each subsequent fiscal year.”.

(w) Reviews, compliance, and integrity.—Section 516(b)(2)(C)(i) of the Federal
Crop Insurance Act ([7 U.S.C.
1516(b)(2)(C)(i)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1516))
is amended by striking “each fiscal year” and inserting “each of fiscal years
2014 through 2025 and $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2026 and each fiscal year
thereafter”.

(x) Poultry insurance pilot program.—Section 523 of the Federal Crop Insurance
Act ([7 U.S.C.
1523](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1523)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:

“(j) Poultry insurance pilot program.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection (a)(2), the Corporation shall
establish a pilot program under which contract poultry growers, including
growers of broilers and laying hens, may elect to receive index-based
insurance from extreme weather-related risk resulting in increased utility
costs (including costs of natural gas, propane, electricity, water, and other
appropriate costs, as determined by the Corporation) associated with poultry
production.

“(2) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT.—The Corporation shall engage with poultry
industry stakeholders in establishing the pilot program under paragraph (1).

“(3) LOCATION.—The pilot program established under paragraph (1) shall be
conducted in a sufficient number of counties to provide a comprehensive
evaluation of the feasibility, effectiveness, and demand among producers in
the top poultry producing States, including Alabama, Arkansas, and
Mississippi, as determined by the Corporation.

“(4) APPROVAL OF POLICY OR PLAN.—Notwithstanding section 508(l), the Board
shall approve a policy or plan of insurance based on the pilot program under
paragraph (1)—

“(A) in accordance with section 508(h); and

“(B) not later than 24 months after the date of enactment of this
subsection.”.

SEC. 10102.  Conservation.

(a) Grassroots source water protection program.—Section 1240O(b) of the Food
Security Act of 1985 ([16 U.S.C.
3839bb–2(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=3839bb-2))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (1), by striking “2023” and inserting “2031”; and

(2) in paragraph (3)—

(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking the “and” at the end;

(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting “;
and”; and

(C) by adding at the end the following:

“(C) $1,000,000 beginning in fiscal year 2026, to remain available until
expended.”.

(b) Voluntary public access and habitat incentive program.—Section 1240R(f)(1)
of the Food Security Act of 1985 ([16 U.S.C.
3839bb–5(f)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=3839bb-5))
is amended—

(1) by striking the “and” after “2023,”; and

(2) by inserting “, and $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through
2031” before the period at the end.

(c) Feral swine eradication and control pilot program.—Section 2408(g)(1) of
the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 ([7 U.S.C.
8351](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=8351) note;
[Public Law
115–334](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ334/pdf/PLAW-115publ334.pdf))
is amended—

(1) by striking “and” and inserting a comma; and

(2) by inserting “, and $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through
2031” before the period at the end.

(d) Funding.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1241(a) of the Food Security Act of 1985 ([16 U.S.C.
3841(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=3841))
is amended—

(A) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraphs (A) through (F) and inserting
the following:

“(A) $625,000,000 for fiscal year 2026;

“(B) $650,000,000 for fiscal year 2027;

“(C) $675,000,000 for fiscal year 2028;

“(D) $700,000,000 for fiscal year 2029;

“(E) $700,000,000 for fiscal year 2030; and

“(F) $700,000,000 for fiscal year 2031.”; and

(B) in paragraph (3)—

(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking clauses (i) through (v) and inserting the
following:

“(i) $2,655,000,000 for fiscal year 2026;

“(ii) $2,855,000,000 for fiscal year 2027;

“(iii) $3,255,000,000 for fiscal year 2028;

“(iv) $3,255,000,000 for fiscal year 2029;

“(v) $3,255,000,000 for fiscal year 2030; and

“(vi) $3,255,000,000 for fiscal year 2031; and”; and

(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking clauses (i) through (v) and inserting
the following:

“(i) $1,300,000,000 for fiscal year 2026;

“(ii) $1,325,000,000 for fiscal year 2027;

“(iii) $1,350,000,000 for fiscal year 2028;

“(iv) $1,375,000,000 for fiscal year 2029;

“(v) $1,375,000,000 for fiscal year 2030; and

“(vi) $1,375,000,000 for fiscal year 2031.”.

(2) REGIONAL CONSERVATION PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.—Section 1271D of the Food
Security Act of 1985 ([16 U.S.C.
3871d](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=3871d)) is
amended by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:

“(a) Availability of funding.—Of the funds of the Commodity Credit
Corporation, the Secretary shall use to carry out the program, to the maximum
extent practicable—

“(1) $425,000,000 for fiscal year 2026;

“(2) $450,000,000 for fiscal year 2027;

“(3) $450,000,000 for fiscal year 2028;

“(4) $450,000,000 for fiscal year 2029;

“(5) $450,000,000 for fiscal year 2030; and

“(6) $450,000,000 for fiscal year 2031.”.

(3) WATERSHED PROTECTION AND FLOOD PREVENTION.—Section 15 of the Watershed
Protection and Flood Prevention Act ([16 U.S.C.
1012a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=1012a)) is
amended—

(A) by striking “$50,000,000 for fiscal year 2019” and inserting “$150,000,000
for fiscal year 2026”; and

(B) by inserting “, to remain available until expended” before the period at
the end.

(4) RESCISSION.—The unobligated balances of amounts appropriated by section
21001(a) of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(136 Stat. 2015) are rescinded.

SEC. 10103. Supplemental Agricultural Trade Promotion program.

(a) In general.—The Secretary shall conduct a program to encourage the
accessibility, development, maintenance, and expansion of commercial export
markets for United States agricultural commodities.

(b) Funding.—Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the Secretary
shall make available to carry out this section $285,000,000 for fiscal year
2027 and each fiscal year thereafter.

SEC. 10104.  Research.

(a) Urban, indoor, and other emerging agricultural production research,
education, and extension initiative.—Section 1672E(d)(1)(B) of the Food,
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 ([7 U.S.C.
5925g(d)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=5925g))
is amended by striking “fiscal year 2024, to remain available until expended”
and inserting “each of fiscal years 2024 through 2031”.

(b) Foundation for food and agriculture research.—Section 7601(g)(1)(A) of the
Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
5939(g)(1)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=5939))
is amended adding at the end the following:

“(iv) FURTHER FUNDING.—Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the
Secretary shall transfer to the Foundation to carry out this section, to
remain available until expended, not later than 30 days after the date of
enactment of this clause, $37,000,000.”.

(c) Scholarships for students at 1890 Institutions.—Section 1446 of the
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 ([7
U.S.C.
3222a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=3222a)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (a)—

(A) by striking paragraph (3); and

(B) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3); and

(2) in subsection (b), by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:

“(1) MANDATORY FUNDING.—Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the
Secretary shall make available to carry out this section $60,000,000 for
fiscal year 2026, to remain available until expended.”.

(d) Assistive technology program for farmers with disabilities.—Section
1680(c) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 ([7
U.S.C.
5933(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=5933)) is
amended—

(1) in the subsection heading, by striking “Authorization of Appropriations”
and inserting “Funding”;

(2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs (2) and (3),
respectively; and

(3) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so redesignated, the following:

“(1) MANDATORY FUNDING.—Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the
Secretary shall use to carry out this section $8,000,000, to remain available
until expended.”; and

(4) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated—

(A) in the paragraph heading, by striking “In general” and inserting
“Authorization of appropriations”; and

(B) by striking “Subject to paragraph (2)” and inserting “Subject to paragraph
(3)”.

(e) Specialty crop research initiative.—Section 412(k)(1)(B) of the
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 ([7 U.S.C.
7632(k)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=7632))
is amended by striking “section $80,000,000 for fiscal year 2014” and
inserting the following: “section—

“(i) $80,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2025; and

“(ii) $175,000,000 for fiscal year 2026”.

(f) Research Facilities Act.—Section 6 of the Research Facilities Act ([7
U.S.C.
390d](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=390d)) is
amended—

(1) in the section heading by striking “Authorization of appropriations” and
inserting “Funding”; and

(2) in subsection (a)—

(A) by striking “(a) In general.—Subject to” and inserting the following:

“(a) In general.—

“(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Subject to”; and

(B) by adding at the end the following:

“(2) MANDATORY FUNDING.—Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the
Secretary shall make available to carry out the competitive grant program
under section 4, $125,000,000 for each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year
2026.”.

SEC. 10105. Secure rural schools; forestry.

(a) Extension of certain provisions of Secure Rural Schools and Community
Self-Determination Act of 2000.—

(1)  SECURE PAYMENTS FOR STATES AND COUNTIES CONTAINING FEDERAL LAND.—

(A) SECURE PAYMENTS.—Section 101 of the Secure Rural Schools and Community
Self-Determination Act of 2000 ([16 U.S.C.
7111](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=7111)) is
amended—

(i) in subsections (a) and (b), by striking “2023” each place it appears and
inserting “2026”; and

(ii) by adding at the end the following:

“(e) Special rule for fiscal year 2024 payments.—

“(1) STATE PAYMENT.—If an eligible county in a State that will receive a share
of the State payment for fiscal year 2024 has already received, or will
receive, a share of the 25-percent payment for fiscal year 2024 distributed to
the State before the date of enactment of this subsection—

“(A) if the amount of the State payment exceeds the amount of the 25-percent
payment, the amount of the State payment shall be reduced by the amount of the
share of the eligible county of the 25-percent payment; or

“(B) if the amount of the State payment is less than or equal to the amount of
the 25-percent payment, the eligible county—

“(i) may retain the amount of the share of the eligible county of the
25-percent payment; and

“(ii) if so retained, such amount shall be treated as if it were received by
the county as a State payment for purposes of this Act.

“(2) COUNTY PAYMENT.—If an eligible county that will receive a county payment
for fiscal year 2024 has already received a 50-percent payment for fiscal year
2024—

“(A) if the amount of the county payment exceeds the amount of the 50-percent
payment, the amount of the county payment shall be reduced by the amount of
the 50-percent payment; or

“(B) if the amount of the county payment is less than or equal to the amount
of the 50-percent payment, the eligible county—

“(i) may retain the amount of the 50-percent payment; and

“(ii) if so retained, such amount shall be treated as if it were received as a
county payment for purposes of this Act.

“(3) TIMELY PAYMENT.—Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of
this subsection, the Secretary of the Treasury shall make all payments under
this title for fiscal year 2024.”.

(B) DISTRIBUTION OF PAYMENTS TO ELIGIBLE COUNTIES.—Section 103(d)(2) of the
Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 ([16 U.S.C.
7113(d)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=7113))
is amended by striking “2023” and inserting “2026”.

(2) PAYMENTS TO STATES AND COUNTIES.—Section 102 of the Secure Rural Schools
and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 ([16 U.S.C.
7112](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=7112)) is
amended—

(A) in subsection (b)—

(i) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following:

“(E) PAYMENTS FOR EACH OF FISCAL YEARS 2024 AND 2025.—The election otherwise
required by subparagraph (A) shall not apply for each of fiscal years 2024 and
2025.”; and

(ii) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following:

“(C) FISCAL YEARS 2024 AND 2025.—The election described in paragraph (1)(A)
applicable to a county in fiscal year 2023 shall be effective for each of
fiscal years 2024 and 2025.”; and

(B) in subsection (d)—

(i) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following:

“(G) PAYMENTS FOR EACH OF FISCAL YEARS 2024 AND 2025.—The election made by an
eligible county under subparagraph (B), (C), or (D) for fiscal year 2023, or
deemed to be made by the county under paragraph (3)(B) for that fiscal year,
shall be effective for each of fiscal years 2024 and 2025.”; and

(ii) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end the following:

“(E) PAYMENTS FOR EACH OF FISCAL YEARS 2024 AND 2025.—This paragraph does not
apply for each of fiscal years 2024 and 2025.”.

(3) EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT SPECIAL PROJECTS ON FEDERAL LAND.—

(A) COMMITTEE ON COMPOSITION WAIVER AUTHORITY.—Section 205(d)(6)(C) of the
Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 ([16 U.S.C.
7125(d)(6)(C)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=7125))
is amended by striking “2023” and inserting “2026”.

(B) EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.—Section 208 of the Secure Rural Schools and
Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 ([16 U.S.C.
7128](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=7128)) is
amended—

(i) in subsection (a), by striking “2025” and inserting “2028”; and

(ii) in subsection (b), by striking “2026” and inserting “2029”.

(4) EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO EXPEND COUNTY FUNDS.—Section 305 of the Secure
Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 ([16 U.S.C.
7144](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=7144)) is
amended—

(A) in subsection (a), by striking “2025” and inserting “2028”; and

(B) in subsection (b), by striking “2026” and inserting “2029”.

(b) Resource advisory committee pilot program extension.—Section 205(g) of the
Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 ([16 U.S.C.
7125(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=7125))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (5), by striking “2023” and inserting “2026”; and

(2) by striking paragraph (6).

(c) Technical corrections.—

(1) RESOURCE ADVISORY COMMITTEES.—Section 205 of the Secure Rural Schools and
Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 ([16 U.S.C.
7125](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=7125)) is
amended—

(A) in subsection (c)—

(i) in paragraph (1), by striking “concerned,” and inserting “concerned”; and

(ii) in paragraph (3), by striking “the date of the enactment of this Act” and
inserting “October 3, 2008”; and

(B) in subsection (d)(4), by striking “to extent” and inserting “to the
extent”.

(2) USE OF PROJECT FUNDS.—Section 206(b)(2) of the Secure Rural Schools and
Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 ([16 U.S.C.
7126(b)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=7126))
is amended by striking “concerned,” and inserting “concerned”.

(d) Rescissions.—

(1) COMPETITIVE GRANTS FOR NON-FEDERAL FOREST LANDOWNERS.—All of the
unobligated balances of the funds made available under each of paragraphs (1)
through (4) of section 23002(a) of subtitle D of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
are rescinded.

(2) STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.—Of the unobligated
balances available under section 23003(a)(1) of subtitle D of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf),
$100,719,676 are rescinded.

SEC. 10106.  Energy.

Section 9005(g)(1)(F) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002
([7 U.S.C.
8105(g)(1)(F)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=8105))
is amended by striking “2024” and inserting “2031”.

SEC. 10107.  Horticulture.

(a) Plant pest and disease management and disaster prevention.—Section 420(f)
of the Plant Protection Act ([7 U.S.C.
7721](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=7721)) is
amended—

(1) in paragraph (5), by striking “and” at the end;

(2) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7);

(3) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:

“(6) $75,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2025; and”; and

(4) in paragraph (7) (as so redesignated), by striking “$75,000,000 for fiscal
year 2018” and inserting “$90,000,000 for fiscal year 2026”.

(b) Specialty crop block grants.—Section 101(l)(1) of the Specialty Crops
Competitiveness Act of 2004 ([7 U.S.C.
1621](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1621) note;
[Public Law
108–465](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-108publ465/pdf/PLAW-108publ465.pdf))
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (D), by striking “and” at the end;

(2) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (F);

(3) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:

“(E) $85,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2025 __; and”; and

(4) in subparagraph (F) (as so redesignated), by striking “$85,000,000 for
fiscal year 2018” and inserting “$100,000,000 for fiscal year 2026”.

(c) Organic production and market data initiative.—Section 7407(d)(1) of the
Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 ([7 U.S.C.
5925c(d)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=5925c))
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (B), by striking “and” at the end;

(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end and inserting “;
and”; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

“(D) $10,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2026 through 2031.”.

(d) Modernization and improvement of international trade technology systems
and data collection funding.—Section 2123(c)(4) of the Organic Foods
Production Act of 1990 ([7 U.S.C.
6522(c)(4)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=6522))
is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking “and
$1,000,000 for fiscal year 2024” and inserting “, $1,000,000 for fiscal years
2024 and 2025, and $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2026”.

(e) National organic certification cost-share program.—Section 10606(d)(1)(C)
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 ([7 U.S.C.
6523(d)(1)(C)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=6523))
is amended by striking “for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2024” and
inserting “for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2031”.

(f) Multiple crop and pesticide use survey.—Section 10109(c)(1) of the
Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 ([Public Law
115–334](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ334/pdf/PLAW-115publ334.pdf);
132 Stat. 4906) is amended to read as follows:

“(1) MANDATORY FUNDING.—Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the
Secretary shall use to carry out this section—

“(A) $500,000 for fiscal year 2019, to remain available until expended;

“(B) $100,000 for fiscal year 2024, to remain available until expended; and

“(C) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2026, to remain available until expended.”.

SEC. 10108.  Miscellaneous.

(a) Animal Disease Prevention and Management.—Section 10409A(d)(1) of the
Animal Health Protection Act ([7 U.S.C.
8308a(d)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=8308a))
is amended to read as follows:

“(1) MANDATORY FUNDING.—

“(A) FISCAL YEARS 2023 THROUGH 2025.—Of the funds of the Commodity Credit
Corporation, the Secretary shall make available to carry out this section
$30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2025, of which not less than
$18,000,000 shall be made available for each of those fiscal years to carry
out subsection (b).

“(B) FISCAL YEARS 2026 THROUGH 2030.—Of the funds of the Commodity Credit
Corporation, the Secretary shall make available to carry out this section
$233,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2030, of which—

“(i) not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for each such fiscal
year to carry out subsection (a);

“(ii) not less than $70,000,000 shall be made available for each such fiscal
year to carry out subsection (b); and

“(iii) not less than $153,000,000 shall be made available for each such fiscal
year to carry out subsection (c).

“(C) SUBSEQUENT FISCAL YEARS.—Of the funds of the Commodity Credit
Corporation, the Secretary shall make available to carry out this section
$75,000,000 for fiscal year 2031 and each fiscal year thereafter, of which not
less than $45,000,000 shall be made available for each of those fiscal years
to carry out subsection (b).”.

(b) Sheep production and marketing grant program.—Section 209(c) of the
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 ([7 U.S.C.
1627a(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=1627a))
is amended—

(1) by striking “$2,000,000 for fiscal year 2019, and”; and

(2) by inserting “and $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2026” after “fiscal year
2024”.

(c) Miscellaneous trust funds.—

(1) PIMA AGRICULTURE COTTON TRUST FUND.—Section 12314 of the Agricultural Act
of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
2101](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=2101) note;
[Public Law
113–79](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-113publ79/pdf/PLAW-113publ79.pdf))
is amended—

(A) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
“2024” and inserting “2031”; and

(B) in subsection (h), by striking “2024” and inserting “2031”.

(2) AGRICULTURE WOOL APPAREL MANUFACTURERS TRUST FUND.—Section 12315 of the
Agricultural Act of 2014 ([7 U.S.C.
7101](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=7101) note;
[Public Law
113–79](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-113publ79/pdf/PLAW-113publ79.pdf))
is amended by striking “2024” each place it appears and inserting “2031”.

(3) WOOL RESEARCH AND PROMOTION.—Section 12316(a) of the Agricultural Act of
2014 ([7 U.S.C.
7101](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=7101) note;
[Public Law
113–79](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-113publ79/pdf/PLAW-113publ79.pdf))
is amended by striking “2024” and inserting “2031”.

(4) EMERGENCY CITRUS DISEASE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT TRUST FUND.—Section
12605(d) of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 ([7 U.S.C.
7632](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=7&section=7632) note;
[Public Law
115–334](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ334/pdf/PLAW-115publ334.pdf))
is amended by striking “2024” and inserting “2031”.
