TITLE VI—Committee on Homeland Security

SEC. 60001.  Border barrier system construction, invasive species, and border
security facilities improvements.

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the
Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection for fiscal year 2025, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available
until September 30, 2029, the following:

(1) $46,500,000,000 for necessary expenses relating to the following:

(A) Construction, installation, or improvement of primary, waterborne, and
secondary barriers.

(B) Access roads.

(C) Barrier system attributes, including cameras, lights, sensors, roads, and
other detection technology.

(2) $50,000,000 for necessary expenses relating to eradication and removal of
the carrizo cane plant, salt cedar, or any other invasive plant species that
impedes border security operations along the Rio Grande River.

(3) $5,000,000,000 for necessary expenses relating to lease, acquisition,
construction, or improvement of U.S. Customs and Border Protection facilities
and checkpoints in the vicinity of the southwest, northern, and maritime
borders.

SEC. 60002.  U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel and fleet vehicles.

(a) CBP personnel.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection for
fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
$4,100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, to hire and
train additional Border Patrol agents, Office of Field Operations Officers,
Air and Marine agents, rehired annuitants, and U.S. Customs and Border
Protection support personnel.

(b) Restrictions.—None of the funds made available by subsection (a) may be
used to recruit, hire, or train personnel for the duties of processing
coordinators.

(c) CBP retention and hiring bonuses.—In addition to amounts otherwise
available, there is appropriated to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and
Border Protection for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, $2,052,630,000, to remain available until September
30, 2029, to provide annual retention bonuses or signing bonuses to eligible
Border Patrol agents, Office of Field Operations Officers, and Air and Marine
agents.

(d) CBP vehicles.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection for
fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
$813,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for the lease or
acquisition of additional marked patrol units.

(e) FLETC.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated
to the Director of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center for fiscal year
2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated—

(1) $285,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, to support the
training of newly hired Federal law enforcement personnel employed by the
Department of Homeland Security; and

(2) $465,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for
procurement and construction, improvements, and related expenses of the
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers facilities.

(f) Border security workforce recruitment and applicant sourcing.—In addition
to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Commissioner of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $600,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2029, for marketing, recruiting, applicant sourcing and
vetting, and operational mobility programs for border security personnel.

SEC. 60003.  U.S. Customs and Border Protection technology, vetting
activities, and other efforts to enhance border security.

(a) CBP technology.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection for
fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
to remain available until September 30, 2029, the following:

(1) $1,076,317,000 for necessary expenses relating to procurement and
integration of new non-intrusive inspection equipment and associated civil
works, artificial intelligence, integration, and machine learning, as well as
other mission support, to combat the entry of illicit narcotics along the
southwest, northern, and maritime borders.

(2) $2,766,000,000 for necessary expenses relating to upgrades and procurement
of border surveillance technologies along the southwest, northern, and
maritime borders.

(3) $673,000,000 for necessary expenses, including the deployment of
technology, relating to the biometric entry and exit system under section 7208
of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 ([8 U.S.C.
1365b](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1365b)).

(b) Restrictions.—None of the funds made available pursuant to subsection
(a)(2) may be used for the procurement or deployment of surveillance towers
that have not been—

(1) tested, and

(2) accepted,

by the Federal Government to deliver autonomous capabilities.

(c) Air and Marine Operations.—In addition to amounts otherwise available,
there is appropriated to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, $1,234,000,000, to remain available until September
30, 2029, for Air and Marine Operations’ upgrading and procurement of new
platforms for rapid air and marine response capabilities.

(d) CBP vetting activities.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there
is appropriated to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection for
fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
$16,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for necessary
expenses to support screening, vetting activities, and expansion of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection’s criminal history databases.

(e) Other efforts to combat drug trafficking to enhance border security.—In
addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the
Secretary of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $500,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2029, for enhancing border security and combatting trafficking,
including fentanyl and its precursor chemicals, at the southwest, northern,
and maritime borders.

(f) Commemorations.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Secretary of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2025, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2029, for commemorating efforts and events
related to border security.

(g) Definition.—In this section, the term “autonomous” means integrated
software and hardware systems that utilize sensors, onboard computing, and
artificial intelligence to identify items of interest that would otherwise be
manually identified by U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel.

SEC. 60004.  State border security reimbursement.

(a) In general.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Secretary of Homeland Security, for fiscal year 2025, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $12,000,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2029, to carry out this section.

(b) Use of funds.—The Secretary of Homeland Security shall use amounts made
available under subsection (a) to make grants to States for costs associated
with actions taken on or after January 21, 2021, to assist the Federal border
security missions to enforce the immigration laws, including through detention
and removal, and to combat the unlawful entry of persons and contraband.

(c) Application.—The Secretary of Homeland Security shall develop a process
for States to submit a grant application, together with satisfactory evidence
of costs incurred, to seek reimbursement for any expenses described in
subsection (b).

(d) Prohibition.—The Secretary of Homeland Security may not make a grant for
reimbursement under this section to a State if such State has received such
reimbursement under any other grant program of the Department of Homeland
Security.

SEC. 60005.  State and local law enforcement presidential residence
protection.

(a) Presidential residence protection.—In addition to amounts otherwise
available, there is appropriated to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, $300,000,000, to remain available until September 30,
2029, for the reimbursement of extraordinary law enforcement personnel costs
for protection activities directly and demonstrably associated with any
residence of the President that is designated pursuant to section 3 of the
Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976 (Public Law 94–524) to be
secured by the United States Secret Service.

(b) Availability.—Funds under subsection (a) shall be available only for costs
that a State or local agency—

(1) incurred or incurs on or after July 1, 2024;

(2) can demonstrate to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency as being—

(A) in excess of the costs of normal and typical law enforcement operations;

(B) directly attributable to the provision of protection described in such
subsection; and

(C) associated with a non-governmental property designated pursuant to section
3 of the Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976 (Public Law 94–524) to
be secured by the United States Secret Service; and

(3) certifies to the Administrator as being for protection activities
requested by the Director of the United States Secret Service.

SEC. 60006.  State homeland security grant program.

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for fiscal year
2025, out of any money in the Treasury, not otherwise appropriated, to be
administered under the State Homeland Security Grant Program authorized under
section 2004 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 ([6 U.S.C.
605](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=6&section=605)), to
enhance State, local, and Tribal security through grants, contracts,
cooperative agreements, and other activities, of which—

(1) $500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for State and
local capabilities to detect, identify, track, or monitor threats from
unmanned aircraft systems (as such term is defined in section 44801 of title
49, United States Code);

(2) $625,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for security,
planning, and other costs related to the 2026 FIFA World Cup;

(3) $1,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for
security, planning, and other costs related to the 2028 Olympic Games and 2028
Paralympic Games; and

(4) $450,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for the
Operation Stonegarden Grant Program.
