TITLE XI—Committee on Ways and Means, “The One, Big, Beautiful Bill”

SEC. 110000.  References to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, etc.

(a) References.—Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this
title, an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or
repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to
be made to a section or other provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

(b) Certain rules regarding effect of rate changes not applicable.—[Section
15](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=15) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall not apply to any change in rate of tax by
reason of any provision of, or amendment made by, this title.

subtitle A—Make American Families and Workers Thrive Again

PART 1—Permanently Preventing Tax Hikes on American Families and Workers

SEC. 110001.  Extension of modification of rates.

(a) In general.—[Section
1(j)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1) is
amended—

(1) in paragraph (1), by striking “, and before January 1, 2026”, and

(2) by striking “2018 through 2025” in the heading and inserting “beginning
after 2017”.

(b) Inflation adjustment.—[Section
1(j)(3)(B)(i)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1)
is amended by inserting “in the case of any taxable year beginning after
December 31, 2025, solely for purposes of determining the dollar amounts at
which the 35-percent rate bracket ends and the 37-percent rate bracket
begins,” before “subsection (f)(3)”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110002.  Extension of increased standard deduction and temporary
enhancement.

(a) In general.—[Section
63(c)(7)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=63) is
amended—

(1) by striking “, and before January 1, 2026” in the matter preceding
subparagraph (A), and

(2) by striking “2018 through 2025” in the heading and inserting “beginning
after 2017”.

(b) Temporary additional increase in standard deduction.—[Section
63(c)(7)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=63) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) TEMPORARY ADDITIONAL INCREASE IN STANDARD DEDUCTION.—In the case of any
taxable year beginning after December 31, 2024, and before January 1, 2029—

“(i) the dollar amount otherwise in effect under paragraph (2)(B) shall be
increased by $1,500, and

“(ii) the dollar amount otherwise in effect under paragraph (2)(C) shall be
increased by $1,000.”.

(c) Recalculation of inflation adjustment.—[Section
63(c)(7)(B)(ii)(II)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=63)
is amended by striking “, determined by substituting  ‘2017’ for  ‘2016’ in
subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof”.

(d) Effective date.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

(2) TEMPORARY ADDITIONAL INCREASE IN STANDARD DEDUCTION.—The amendment made by
subsection (b) shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 110003.  Termination of deduction for personal exemptions.

(a) In general.—[Section
151(d)(5)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=151)
is amended—

(1) by striking “and before January 1, 2026”, and

(2) by striking “2018 through 2025” in the heading and inserting “beginning
after 2017”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110004. Extension of increased child tax credit and temporary
enhancement.

(a) Extension of expanded child tax credit.—[Section
24(h)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=24) is
amended—

(1) in paragraph (1), by striking “and before January 1, 2026,”, and

(2) by striking “2018 through 2025” in the heading and inserting “beginning
after 2017”.

(b) Increase in child tax credit.—[Section
24(h)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=24) is
amended to read as follows:

“(2) CREDIT AMOUNT.—Subsection (a) shall be applied by substituting—

“(A) in the case of taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, and
before December 31, 2028, ‘$2,500’ for ‘$1,000’, or

“(B) in the case of any subsequent taxable year, ‘$2,000’ for ‘$1,000’.”.

(c) Social security number required.—[Section
24(h)(7)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=24) is
amended to read as follows:

“(7) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER REQUIRED.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—No credit shall be allowed under this section to a taxpayer
with respect to any qualifying child unless the taxpayer includes on the
return of tax for the taxable year—

“(i) such individual’s social security number,

“(ii) the social security number of such qualifying child, and

“(iii) if the individual is married, the social security number of such
individual’s spouse.

“(B) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘social
security number’ means a social security number issued to an individual by the
Social Security Administration, but only if the social security number is
issued—

“(i) to a citizen of the United States or pursuant to subclause (I) (or that
portion of subclause (III) that relates to subclause (I)) of section
205(c)(2)(B)(i) of the Social Security Act, and

“(ii) before the due date for such return.

“(C) MARRIED INDIVIDUALS.—Rules similar to the rules of section 32(d) shall
apply to this section.”.

(d) Inflation adjustments.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
24(i)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=24) is
amended to read as follows:

“(i) Inflation adjustments.—

“(1) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF REFUNDABLE CREDIT.—In the case of a taxable year
beginning after 2024, the $1,400 amount in subsection (h)(5) shall be
increased by an amount equal to—

“(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by

“(B) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the
calendar year in which the taxable year begins, determined by substituting
‘2017’ for ‘2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.

“(2) SPECIAL RULE FOR ADJUSTMENT OF CREDIT AMOUNT.—In the case of a taxable
year beginning after 2028, the $2,000 amount in subsection (h)(2)(B), shall be
increased by an amount equal to—

“(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by

“(B) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the
calendar year in which the taxable year begins, determined by substituting
‘2024’ for ‘2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.

“(3) ROUNDING.—If any increase under this subsection is not a multiple of
$100, such increase shall be rounded to the next lowest multiple of $100.”.

(e) Conforming amendment.—[Section
24(h)(5)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=24) is
amended to read as follows:

“(5) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF REFUNDABLE CREDIT.—The amount determined under
subsection (d)(1)(A) with respect to any qualifying child shall not exceed
$1,400, and such subsection shall be applied without regard to paragraph (4)
of this subsection.”.

(f) Treatment of certain benefits of members of religious and apostolic
associations as earned income.—[Section
24(d)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=24) is
amended by adding at the end the following: “For purposes of subparagraph (B),
any amount treated as a dividend received under the last sentence of section
501(d) shall be treated as earned income which is taken into account in
computing taxable income for the taxable year. ”.

(g) Omission of correct social security number treated as mathematical or
clerical error.—[Section
6213(g)(2)(I)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6213)
is amended by striking “section 24(e)” and inserting “section 24”.

(h) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 110005. Extension of deduction for qualified business income and
permanent enhancement.

(a) Made permanent.—[Section
199A](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=199A) is
amended by striking subsection (i).

(b) Increase in deduction.—Subsections (a)(2), (b)(1)(B), and (b)(2)(A) of
section 199A are each amended by striking “20 percent” and inserting “23
percent”.

(c) Modification of limitations based on taxable income.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
199A(b)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=199A)
is amended to read as follows:

“(3) MODIFICATION OF DETERMINATION OF COMBINED QUALIFIED BUSINESS INCOME
AMOUNT BASED ON TAXABLE INCOME.—

“(A) EXCEPTION FROM LIMITATIONS.—In the case of any taxpayer whose taxable
income for the taxable year does not exceed the threshold amount—

“(i) paragraph (2) shall be applied without regard to subparagraph (B), and

“(ii) a specified service trade or business shall not fail to be treated as a
qualified trade or business solely by reason of subsection (d)(1)(A).

“(B) PHASE-IN OF LIMITATIONS.—In the case of any taxpayer whose taxable income
for the taxable year exceeds the threshold amount, the sum described in
paragraph (1)(A) (determined without regard to this subparagraph) shall
instead be an amount (if greater) equal to the excess (if any) of—

“(i) the sum described in paragraph (1)(A) (determined by applying the rules
of clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (A)), over

“(ii) the limitation phase-in amount.

“(C) LIMITATION PHASE-IN AMOUNT.—For purposes of subparagraph (B), the
limitation phase-in amount shall be an amount equal to 75 percent of the
excess (if any) of—

“(i) the taxable income of the taxpayer for the taxable year, over

“(ii) the threshold amount.”.

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—[Section
199A(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=199A) is
amended by striking paragraph (3).

(d) Deduction for qualified business income to apply to certain interest
dividends of qualified business development companies.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsections (b)(1)(B) and (c)(1) of section 199A are each
amended by inserting “, qualified BDC interest dividends,” after “qualified
REIT dividends”.

(2) QUALIFIED BDC INTEREST DIVIDEND DEFINED.—[Section
199A(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=199A) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(5) QUALIFIED BDC INTEREST DIVIDEND.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified BDC interest dividend’ means any dividend
from an electing business development company received during the taxable year
which is attributable to net interest income of such company which is properly
allocable to a qualified trade or business of such company.

“(B) ELECTING BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMPANY.—For purposes of this paragraph,
the term ‘electing business development company’ means a business development
company (as defined in section 2(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940)
which has an election in effect under section 851 to be treated as a regulated
investment company.”.

(e) Modified inflation adjustment.—[Section
199A(e)(2)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=199A)
is amended—

(1) by striking “2018” and inserting “2025”, and

(2) in clause (ii), by striking “, determined by substituting  ‘calendar year
2017’ for  ‘calendar year 2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof”.

(f) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110006.  Extension of increased estate and gift tax exemption amounts and
permanent enhancement.

(a) In general.—[Section
2010(c)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=2010)
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (A) by striking “$5,000,000” and inserting “$15,000,000”,

(2) in subparagraph (B)—

(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking “2011” and inserting
“2026”, and

(B) in clause (ii), by striking “calendar year 2010” and inserting “calendar
year 2025”, and

(3) by striking subparagraph (C).

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110007.  Extension of increased alternative minimum tax exemption and
phase-out thresholds.

(a) In general.—[Section
55(d)(4)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=55) is
amended—

(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking “, and before January 1, 2026”, and

(2) by striking “and before 2026” in the heading.

(b) Modification of inflation adjustment.—[Section
55(d)(4)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=55)
is amended—

(1) by striking “2018” in clause (i) and inserting “2026”, and

(2) by striking “2017” in clause (i)(II) and inserting “2025”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110008.  Extension of limitation on deduction for qualified residence
interest.

(a) In general.—[Section
163(h)(3)(F)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=163)
is amended—

(1) in clause (i), by striking “, and before January 1, 2026”,

(2) by striking clause (ii) and redesignating clauses (iii) and (iv) as
clauses (ii) and (iii), respectively, and

(3) by striking “2018 through 2025” in the heading and inserting “beginning
after 2017”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110009.  Extension of limitation on casualty loss deduction.

(a) In general.—[Section
165(h)(5)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=165)
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking “and before January 1, 2026,”, and

(2) by striking “2018 through 2025” in the heading and inserting “beginning
after 2017”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110010.  Termination of miscellaneous itemized deduction.

(a) In general.—[Section
67(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=67) is
amended—

(1) by striking “, and before January 1, 2026”, and

(2) by striking “2018 through 2025” in the heading and inserting “beginning
after 2017”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110011.  Limitation on tax benefit of itemized deductions.

(a) In general.—[Section
68](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=68) is
amended to read as follows:

“(a) In general.—In the case of an individual, the amount of the taxpayer’s
itemized deductions shall be reduced by the sum of—

“(1) 5⁄37  of the lesser of—

“(A) the amount of the deduction allowable to the taxpayer under section 164
for such taxable year (determined without regard to this section), or

“(B) the excess (if any) of—

“(i) the taxpayer’s taxable income for such taxable year (determined without
regard to this section and increased by the amount of the taxpayer’s itemized
deductions), over

“(ii) the dollar amount at which the 37 percent rate bracket under section 1
begins with respect to the taxpayer, plus

“(2) 2⁄37  of the lesser of—

“(A) so much (if any) of the taxpayer’s itemized deductions as exceed the
amount described in paragraph (1)(A), or

“(B) the excess (if any) of—

“(i) the amount described in subparagraph (1)(B)(i), over

“(ii) the sum of the amounts described in paragraphs (1)(A) and (1)(B)(ii).

“(b) Itemized deductions.—For purposes of subsection (a), any reference to the
taxpayer’s itemized deductions shall be treated as reference to such
deductions determined without regard to this section.

“(c) Coordination with other limitations.—This section shall be applied after
the application of any other limitation on the allowance of any itemized
deduction.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110012.  Termination of qualified bicycle commuting reimbursement
exclusion.

(a) In general.—[Section
132(f)(8)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=132)
is amended by striking “, and before January 1, 2026”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110013.  Extension of limitation on exclusion and deduction for moving
expenses.

(a) Termination of deduction.—[Section
217(k)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=217) is
amended—

(1) by striking “, and before January 1, 2026”, and

(2) by striking “2018 through 2025” in the heading and inserting “beginning
after 2017”.

(b) Termination of reimbursement.—[Section
132(g)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=132)
is amended—

(1) by striking “, and before January 1, 2026”, and

(2) by striking “2018 through 2025” in the heading and inserting “beginning
after 2017”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110014.  Extension of limitation on wagering losses.

(a) In general.—[Section
165(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=165) is
amended by striking “and before January 1, 2026,”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110015.  Extension of increased limitation on contributions to ABLE
accounts and permanent enhancement.

(a) In general.—[Section
529A(b)(2)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=529A)
is amended—

(1) in clause (i), by inserting “(determined by substituting  ‘1996’ for
‘1997’ in paragraph (2)(B) thereof)” after “section 2503(b)”, and

(2) in clause (ii), by striking “before January 1, 2026”.

(b) Effective date.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the
amendments made by this section shall apply to contributions made after
December 31, 2025.

(2) MODIFIED INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—The amendment made by subsection (a)(1)
shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110016.  Extension of savers credit allowed for ABLE contributions.

(a) In general.—[Section
25B(d)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=25B)
is amended to read as follows:

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified retirement savings contributions’ means,
with respect to any taxable year, the sum of—

“(A) the amount of contributions made by the eligible individual during such
taxable year to the ABLE account (within the meaning of section 529A) of which
such individual is the designated beneficiary, and

“(B) in the case of any taxable year beginning before January 1, 2027—

“(i) the amount of the qualified retirement contributions (as defined in
section 219(e)) made by the eligible individual,

“(ii) the amount of—

“(I) any elective deferrals (as defined in section 402(g)(3)) of such
individual, and

“(II) any elective deferral of compensation by such individual under an
eligible deferred compensation plan (as defined in section 457(b)) of an
eligible employer described in section 457(e)(1)(A), and

“(iii) the amount of voluntary employee contributions by such individual to
any qualified retirement plan (as defined in section 4974(c)).”.

(b) Coordination with SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 amendment.—Paragraph (1) of
section 103(e) of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 is repealed, and the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 shall be applied and administered as though such
paragraph were never enacted.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years ending after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110017.  Extension of rollovers from qualified tuition programs to ABLE
accounts permitted.

(a) In general.—[Section
529(c)(3)(C)(i)(III)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=529)
is amended by striking “before January 1, 2026,”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110018. Extension of treatment of certain individuals performing services
in the Sinai Peninsula and enhancement to include additional areas.

(a) Treatment made permanent.—Section 11026(a) of [Public Law
115–97](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ97/pdf/PLAW-115publ97.pdf)
is amended by striking “with respect to the applicable period,”.

(b) Kenya, Mali, Burkina Faso, and Chad included as hazardous duty
areas.—Section 11026(b) of [Public Law
115–97](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ97/pdf/PLAW-115publ97.pdf)
is amended to read as follows:

“(b) Qualified hazardous duty area.—For purposes of this section, the term
'qualified hazardous duty area' means—

“(1) the Sinai Peninsula of Egypt, if as of December, 22, 2017, any member of
the Armed Forces of the United States is entitled to special pay under section
310 of title 37, United States Code (relating to special pay; duty subject to
hostile fire or imminent danger), for services performed in such location, and

“(2) Kenya, Mali, Burkina Faso, and Chad if, as of the date of the enactment
of this paragraph, any member of the Armed Forces of the United States is
entitled to special pay under such section, for services performed in such
location.

Such term includes any such location only during the period such entitlement
is in effect with respect to such location.”.

(c) Conforming amendment.—Section 11026 of [Public Law
115–97](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ97/pdf/PLAW-115publ97.pdf)
is amended by striking subsections (c) and (d).

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall take effect on
January 1, 2026.

SEC. 110019.  Extension of exclusion from gross income of student loans
discharged on account of death or disability.

(a) In general.—[Section
108(f)(5)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=108)
is amended to read as follows:

“(5) DISCHARGES ON ACCOUNT OF DEATH OR DISABILITY.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of an individual, gross income does not include
any amount which (but for this subsection) would be includible in gross income
for such taxable year by reason of the discharge (in whole or in part) of any
loan described in subparagraph (B), if such discharge was—

“(i) pursuant to subsection (a) or (d) of section 437 of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 or the parallel benefit under part D of title IV of such Act
(relating to the repayment of loan liability),

“(ii) pursuant to section 464(c)(1)(F) of such Act, or

“(iii) otherwise discharged on account of death or total and permanent
disability of the student.

“(B) LOANS DISCHARGED.—A loan is described in this subparagraph if such loan
is—

“(i) a student loan (as defined in paragraph (2)), or

“(ii) a private education loan (as defined in section 140(a) of the Consumer
Credit Protection Act ([15 U.S.C.
1650(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=1650)).

“(C) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER REQUIREMENT.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) shall not apply with respect to any
discharge during any taxable year unless the taxpayer includes on the return
of tax for such taxable year—

“(I) the taxpayer’s social security number, and

“(II) if the taxpayer is married, the social security number of such
taxpayers’s spouse.

“(ii) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER.—For purposes of this subparagraph, the term
‘social security number’ has the meaning given such term in section 24(h)(7).

“(iii) MARRIED INDIVIDUALS.—Rules similar to the rules of section 32(d) shall
apply to this subparagraph.”.

(b) Omission of correct social security number treated as mathematical or
clerical error.—[Section
6213(g)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6213)
is amended by striking “and” at the end of subparagraph (U), by striking the
period at the end of subparagraph (V) and inserting “, and”, and by inserting
after subparagraph (V) the following new subparagraph:

“(W) an omission of a correct social security number required under section
108(f)(5)(C) (relating to discharges on account of death or disability).”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
discharges after December 31, 2025.

PART 2—Additional Tax Relief for American Families and Workers

SEC. 110101.  No tax on tips.

(a) Deduction allowed.—Part VII of subchapter B of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by redesignating
section 224 as section 225 and by inserting after section 223 the following
new section:

“SEC. 224.  Qualified tips.

“(a) In general.—There shall be allowed as a deduction an amount equal to the
qualified tips received during the taxable year that are included on
statements furnished to the individual pursuant to section 6041(d)(3),
6041A(e)(3), 6050W(f)(2), 6051(a)(18), or reported by the taxpayer on Form
4137 (or successor).

“(b) Tips received in course of trade or business.—In the case of qualified
tips received by an individual during any taxable year in the course of any
trade or business of such individual, such qualified tips shall be taken into
account under subsection (a) only to the extent that the gross receipts of the
taxpayer from such trade or business for such taxable year (including such
qualified tips) exceeds the sum of—

“(1) cost of goods sold that are allocable to such receipts, plus

“(2) other expenses, losses, or deductions (other than the deduction allowed
under this section), which are properly allocable to such receipts.

“(c) Qualified tips.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified tip’ means any cash tip received by an
individual in an occupation which traditionally and customarily received tips
on or before December 31, 2024, as provided by the Secretary.

“(2) EXCLUSIONS.—Such term shall not include any amount received by an
individual unless—

“(A) such amount is paid voluntarily without any consequence in the event of
nonpayment, is not the subject of negotiation, and is determined by the payor,

“(B) the trade or business in the course of which the individual receives such
amount is not a specified service trade or business (as defined in section
199A(d)(2)),

“(C) such individual does not receive earned income (within the meaning of
section 32) in excess of the dollar amount in effect under section
414(q)(1)(B)(i) for the calendar year in which the taxable year begins, and

“(D) such other requirements as may be established by the Secretary in
regulations or other guidance are satisfied.

“(d) Social security number required.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—No deduction shall be allowed under this section unless the
taxpayer includes on the return of tax for the taxable year—

“(A) such individual’s social security number, and

“(B) if the individual is married, the social security number of such
individual’s spouse.

“(2) MARRIED INDIVIDUALS.—Rules similar to the rules of section 32(d) shall
apply to this section.

“(3) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER DEFINED.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the term
‘social security number’ shall have the meaning given such term in section
24(h)(7).

“(e) Regulations.—The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations or other
guidance as may be necessary to prevent reclassification of income as
qualified tips, including regulations or other guidance to prevent abuse of
the deduction allowed by this section.

“(f) Termination.—No deduction shall be allowed under this section for any
taxable year beginning after December 31, 2028.”.

(b) Deduction allowed to non-itemizers.—[Section
63(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=63) is
amended by striking “and” at the end of paragraph (3), by striking the period
at the end of paragraph (4) and inserting “and”, and by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:

“(5) the deduction provided in section 224.”.

(c) Omission of correct social security number treated as mathematical or
clerical error.—Section 6213(g)(2), as amended by the preceding provisions of
this Act, is amended by striking “and” at the end of subparagraph (V), by
striking the period at the end of subparagraph (W) and inserting “, and”, and
by inserting after subparagraph (W) the following new subparagraph:

“(X) an omission of a correct social security number required under section
224(d) (relating to deduction for qualified tips).”.

(d) Exclusion from qualified business income.—[Section
199A(c)(4)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=199A)
is amended by striking “and” at the end of subparagraph (B), by striking the
period at the end of subparagraph (C) and inserting “, and”, and by adding at
the end the following new subparagraph:

“(D) any amount with respect to which a deduction is allowable to the taxpayer
under section 224(a) for the taxable year.”.

(e) Extension of tip credit to beauty service business.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
45B(b)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45B)
is amended to read as follows:

“(2) APPLICATION ONLY TO CERTAIN LINES OF BUSINESS.—In applying paragraph (1)
there shall be taken into account only tips received from customers or clients
in connection with the following services:

“(A) The providing, delivering, or serving of food or beverages for
consumption, if the tipping of employees delivering or serving food or
beverages by customers is customary.

“(B) The providing of any of the following services to a customer or client if
the tipping of employees providing such services is customary:

“(i) Barbering and hair care.

“(ii) Nail care.

“(iii) Esthetics.

“(iv) Body and spa treatments.”.

(2) CREDIT DETERMINED WITH RESPECT TO MINIMUM WAGE IN EFFECT.—[Section
45B(b)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45B)
is amended—

(A) by striking “as in effect on January 1, 2007, and”, and

(B) by inserting “, and in the case of food or beverage establishments, as in
effect on January 1, 2007” after “without regard to section 3(m) of such Act”.

(f) Reporting requirements.—

(1) RETURNS FOR PAYMENTS MADE IN THE COURSE OF A TRADE OR BUSINESS.—

(A) STATEMENT FURNISHED TO SECRETARY.—[Section
6041(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6041) is
amended by inserting “(including a separate accounting of any such amounts
properly designated as tips and whether such tips are received in an
occupation described in section 224(c)(1))” after “such gains, profits, and
income”.

(B) STATEMENT FURNISHED TO PAYEE.—[Section
6041(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6041) is
amended by striking “and” at the end of paragraph (1), by striking the period
at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting “, and”, and by inserting after
paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:

“(3) in the case of compensation to non-employees, the portion of payments
that have been properly designated as tips and whether such tips are received
in an occupation described in section 224(c)(1).”.

(2) RETURNS FOR PAYMENTS MADE FOR SERVICES AND DIRECT SALES.—

(A) STATEMENT FURNISHED TO SECRETARY.—[Section
6041A(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6041A)
is amended by inserting “(including a separate accounting of any such amounts
properly designated as tips and whether such tips are received in an
occupation described in section 224(c)(1))” after “amount of such payments”.

(B) STATEMENT FURNISHED TO PAYEE.—[Section
6041A(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6041A)
is amended by striking “and” at the end of paragraph (1), by striking the
period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting “, and”, and by inserting
after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:

“(3) the portion of payments that have been properly designated as tips and
whether such tips are received in an occupation described in section
224(c)(1).”.

(3) RETURNS RELATING TO THIRD PARTY SETTLEMENT ORGANIZATIONS.—

(A) STATEMENT FURNISHED TO SECRETARY.—[Section
6050W(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6050W)
is amended by striking “and” at the end of paragraph (1), by striking the
period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting “and”, and by adding at the
end the following new paragraph:

“(3) in the case of a third party settlement organization, the portion of
reportable payment transactions that have been properly designated by payors
as tips and whether such tips are received in an occupation described in
section 224(c)(1).”.

(B) STATEMENT FURNISHED TO PAYEE.—[Section
6050W(f)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6050W)
is amended by inserting “(including a separate accounting of any such amounts
that have been properly designated by payors as tips and whether such tips are
received in an occupation described in section 224(c)(1))” after “reportable
payment transactions”.

(4) RETURNS RELATED TO WAGES.—[Section
6051(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6051) is
amended by striking “and” at the end of paragraph (16), by striking the period
at the end of paragraph (17) and inserting “, and”, and by inserting after
paragraph (17) the following new paragraph:

“(18) the total amount of tips reported by the employee under section
6053(a).”.

(g) Clerical amendment.—The table of sections for part VII of subchapter B of
[chapter 1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by redesignating the
item relating to section 224 as relating to section 225 and by inserting after
the item relating to section 223 the following new item:

  
“Sec. 224. Qualified tips.”.

(h) Published list of occupations traditionally receiving tips.—Not later than
90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Treasury (or the Secretary’s delegate) shall publish a list of occupations
which traditionally and customarily received tips on or before December 31,
2024, for purposes of section 224(c)(1) (as added by subsection (a)).

(i) Withholding.—The Secretary of the Treasury (or the Secretary’s delegate)
shall modify the tables and procedures prescribed under section 3402(a) to
take into account the deduction allowed under section 224 (as added by this
Act).

(j) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 110102. No tax on overtime.

(a) Deduction allowed.—Part VII of subchapter B of chapter 1, as amended by
the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by redesignating section 225
as section 226 and by inserting after section 224 the following new section:

“SEC. 225.  Qualified overtime compensation.

“(a) In general.—There shall be allowed as a deduction an amount equal to the
qualified overtime compensation received during the taxable year.

“(b) Qualified overtime compensation.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘qualified overtime
compensation’ means overtime compensation paid to an individual required under
section 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 that is in excess of the
regular rate (as used in such section) at which such individual is employed.

“(2) EXCLUSIONS.—Such term shall not include—

“(A) any qualified tip (as defined in section 224(c)), or

“(B) any amount received by an individual during a taxable year if such
individual is a highly compensated employee (as defined in section 414(q)(1))
of any employer for the calendar year in which the taxable year begins, or
receives earned income in excess of the dollar amount in effect under section
414(q)(1)(B)(i) for such calendar year.

“(c) Social security number required.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—No deduction shall be allowed under this section unless the
taxpayer includes on the return of tax for the taxable year—

“(A) such individual’s social security number, and

“(B) if the individual is married, the social security number of such
individual’s spouse.

“(2) MARRIED INDIVIDUALS.—Rules similar to the rules of section 32(d) shall
apply to this section.

“(3) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER DEFINED.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the term
‘social security number’ shall have the meaning given such term in section
24(h)(7).

“(d) Regulations.—The Secretary shall issue such regulations or other guidance
as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section.

“(e) Termination.—No deduction shall be allowed under this section for any
taxable year beginning after December 31, 2028.”.

(b) Deduction allowed to non-itemizers.—Section 63(b), as amended by the
preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by striking “and” at the end of
paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5) and
inserting “and”, and by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(6) the deduction provided in section 225.”.

(c) Requirement to include overtime compensation on W-2.—Section 6051(a), as
amended by the preceding provision of this Act, is amended by striking “and”
at the end of paragraph (17), by striking the period at the end of paragraph
(18) and inserting “, and”, and by inserting after paragraph (18) the
following new paragraph:

“(19) the total amount of qualified overtime compensation (as defined in
section 225(b)).”.

(d) Omission of correct social security number treated as mathematical or
clerical error.—Section 6213(g)(2), as amended by the preceding provisions of
this Act, is amended by striking “and” at the end of subparagraph (W), by
striking the period at the end of subparagraph (X) and inserting “, and”, and
by inserting after subparagraph (X) the following new subparagraph:

“(Y) an omission of a correct social security number required under section
225(c) (relating to deduction for qualified overtime).”.

(e) Clerical amendment.—The table of sections for part VII of subchapter B of
chapter 1, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by
redesignating the item relating to section 225 as an item relating to section
226 and by inserting after the item relating to section 224 the following new
item:

  
“Sec. 225. Qualified overtime compensation.”.

(f) Withholding.—The Secretary of the Treasury (or the Secretary’s delegate)
shall modify the tables and procedures prescribed under section 3402(a) to
take into account the deduction allowed under section 225 (as added by this
Act).

(g) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 110103.  Enhanced deduction for seniors.

(a) In general.—[Section
63(f)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=63) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(5) BONUS ADDITIONAL AMOUNT FOR SENIORS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any taxable year beginning after December 31,
2024, and before January 1, 2029, the dollar amount in effect under paragraph
(1) shall be increased by $4,000.

“(B) LIMITATION BASED ON MODIFIED ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—In the case of any
taxpayer for any taxable year, the $4,000 amount in subparagraph(A) shall be
reduced (but not below zero) by 4 percent of so much of the taxpayer’s
modified adjusted gross income as exceeds $75,000 ($150,000 in the case of a
joint return).

“(C) MODIFIED ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term
‘modified adjusted gross income’ means the adjusted gross income of the
taxpayer for the taxable year increased by any amount excluded from gross
income under section 911, 931, or 933.

“(D) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER REQUIRED.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) shall not apply unless the taxpayer includes
on the return of tax for the taxable year—

“(I) such individual’s social security number, and

“(II) if the individual is married, the social security number of such
individual’s spouse.

“(ii) MARRIED INDIVIDUALS.—Rules similar to the rules of section 32(d) shall
apply to this section.

“(iii) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER DEFINED.—For purposes of clause (i), the term
‘social security number’ shall have the meaning given such term in section
24(h)(7).

“(E) COORDINATION WITH INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—Subsection (c)(4) shall not apply
to any dollar amount contained in this paragraph.

“(F) ALLOWANCE TO SENIORS WHO ELECT TO ITEMIZE.—In the case of a taxpayer who
elects to itemize deductions for any taxable year beginning after December 31,
2024, and before January 1, 2029, there shall be allowed as a deduction the
aggregate increase which would be determined under subparagraph (A)
(determined after the application of subparagraphs (B), (D), and (E)) with
respect to such taxpayer for such taxable year if such taxpayer did not so
elect to itemize deductions for such taxable year.”.

(b) Omission of correct social security number treated as mathematical or
clerical error.—Section 6213(g)(2), as amended by the preceding provisions of
this Act, is amended by striking “and” at the end of subparagraph (X), by
striking the period at the end of subparagraph (Y) and inserting “, and”, and
by inserting after subparagraph (Y) the following new subparagraph:

“(Z) an omission of a correct social security number required under section
63(f)(5)(D) (relating to bonus additional amount for seniors).”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 110104. No tax on car loan interest.

(a) In general.—[Section
163(h)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=163) is
amended by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5) and by inserting after
paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:

“(4) SPECIAL RULES FOR TAXABLE YEARS 2025 THROUGH 2028 RELATING TO QUALIFIED
PASSENGER VEHICLE LOAN INTEREST.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of taxable years beginning after December 31,
2024, and before January 1, 2029, for purposes of this subsection the term
‘personal interest’ shall not include qualified passenger vehicle loan
interest.

“(B) QUALIFIED PASSENGER VEHICLE LOAN INTEREST DEFINED.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘qualified passenger
vehicle loan interest’ means any interest which is paid or accrued during the
taxable year on indebtedness incurred by the taxpayer after December 31, 2024,
for the purchase of, and that is secured by a first lien on, an applicable
passenger vehicle for personal use.

“(ii) EXCEPTIONS.—Such term shall not include any amount paid or incurred on
any of the following:

“(I) A loan to finance fleet sales.

“(II) A personal cash loan secured by a vehicle previously purchased by the
taxpayer.

“(III) A loan incurred for the purchase of a commercial vehicle that is not
used for personal purposes.

“(IV) Any lease financing.

“(V) A loan to finance the purchase of a vehicle with a salvage title.

“(VI) A loan to finance the purchase of a vehicle intended to be used for
scrap or parts.

“(C) LIMITATIONS.—

“(i) DOLLAR LIMIT.—The amount of interest taken into account by a taxpayer
under subparagraph (B) for any taxable year shall not exceed $10,000.

“(ii) LIMITATION BASED ON MODIFIED ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—

“(I) IN GENERAL.—The amount which is otherwise allowable as a deduction under
subsection (a) as qualified passenger vehicle loan interest (determined
without regard to this clause and after the application of clause (i)) shall
be reduced (but not below zero) by $200 for each $1,000 (or portion thereof)
by which the modified adjusted gross income of the taxpayer for the taxable
year exceeds $100,000 ($200,000 in the case of a joint return).

“(II) MODIFIED ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—For purposes of this clause, the term
‘modified adjusted gross income’ means the adjusted gross income of the
taxpayer for the taxable year determined after application of sections 86,
135, 137, 219, 221, and 469, and without regard to this paragraph and sections
911, 931, and 933.

“(D) APPLICABLE PASSENGER VEHICLE.—The term ‘applicable passenger vehicle’
means any vehicle—

“(i) (I) which is manufactured primarily for use on public streets, roads, and
highways,

“(II) which has at least 2 wheels, and

“(III) which is a car, minivan, van, sport utility vehicle, pickup truck, or
motorcycle,

“(ii) which is an all-terrain vehicle (designed for use on land), or

“(iii) any trailer, camper, or vehicle (designed for use on land) which—

“(I) is designed to provide temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping, or seasonal use, and

“(II) is a motor vehicle or is designed to be towed by, or affixed to, a motor
vehicle.

Such term shall not include any vehicle the final assembly of which did not
occur within the United States.

“(E) OTHER DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL RULES.—For purposes of this paragraph—

“(i) ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE.—The term ‘all-terrain vehicle’ means any motorized
vehicle which has 3 or 4 wheels, a seat designed to be straddled by the
operator, and handlebars for steering control.

“(ii) FINAL ASSEMBLY.—For purposes of subparagraph (D), the term ‘final
assembly’ means the process by which a manufacturer produces a vehicle at, or
through the use of, a plant, factory, or other place from which the vehicle is
delivered to a dealer or importer with all component parts necessary for the
mechanical operation of the vehicle included with the vehicle, whether or not
the component parts are permanently installed in or on the vehicle.

“(iii) TREATMENT OF REFINANCING.—Indebtedness described in subparagraph (B)
shall include indebtedness that results from refinancing any indebtedness
described in such subparagraph, and that is secured by a first lien on the
applicable passenger vehicle with respect to which the refinanced indebtedness
was incurred, but only to the extent the amount of such resulting indebtedness
does not exceed the amount of such refinanced indebtedness.

“(iv) RELATED PARTIES.—Indebtedness described in subparagraph (B) shall not
include any indebtedness owed to a person who is related (within the meaning
of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)) to the taxpayer.”.

(b) Deduction allowed whether or not taxpayer itemizes.—[Section
62(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=62) is
amended by inserting after paragraph (21) the following new paragraph:

“(22) QUALIFIED PASSENGER VEHICLE LOAN INTEREST.—So much of the deduction
allowed by section 163(a) as is attributable to the exception under section
163(h)(4)(A).”.

(c) Reporting.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Subpart B of part III of subchapter A of [chapter
61](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter61-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:

“SEC. 6050AA.  Returns relating to applicable passenger vehicle loan interest
received in trade or business from individuals.

“(a) In general.—Any person—

“(1) who is engaged in a trade or business, and

“(2) who, in the course of such trade or business, receives from any
individual interest aggregating $600 or more for any calendar year on a
specified passenger vehicle loan,

shall make the return described in subsection (b) with respect to each
individual from whom such interest was received at such time as the Secretary
may provide.

“(b) Form and manner of returns.—A return is described in this subsection if
such return—

“(1) is in such form as the Secretary may prescribe, and

“(2) contains—

“(A) the name and address of the individual from whom the interest described
in subsection (a)(2) was received,

“(B) the amount of such interest received for the calendar year,

“(C) the amount of outstanding principal on the specified passenger vehicle
loan as of the beginning of such calendar year,

“(D) the date of the origination of such loan,

“(E) the year, make, and model of the applicable passenger vehicle which
secures such loan (or such other description of such vehicle as the Secretary
may prescribe), and

“(F) such other information as the Secretary may prescribe.

“(c) Statements to be furnished to individuals with respect to whom
information is required.—Every person required to make a return under
subsection (a) shall furnish to each individual whose name is required to be
set forth in such return a written statement showing—

“(1) the name, address, and phone number of the information contact of the
person required to make such return, and

“(2) the information described in subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E) of
subsection (b)(2) with respect to such individual (and such information as is
described in subsection (b)(2)(F) with respect to such individual as the
Secretary may provide for purposes of this subsection).

The written statement required under the preceding sentence shall be furnished
on or before January 31 of the year following the calendar year for which the
return under subsection (a) was required to be made.

“(d) Definitions.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Terms used in this section which are also used in paragraph
(4) of section 163(h) shall have the same meaning as when used in such
paragraph.

“(2) SPECIFIED PASSENGER VEHICLE LOAN.—The term ‘specified passenger vehicle
loan’ means the indebtedness described in section 163(h)(4)(B) with respect to
any applicable passenger vehicle.

“(e) Regulations.—The Secretary shall issue such regulations or other guidance
as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section,
including regulations or other guidance to prevent the duplicate reporting of
information under this section.”.

(2) PENALTIES.—[Section
6724(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6724) is
amended—

(A) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking “or” at the end of clause (xxvii), by
striking “and” at the end of clause (xxviii) and inserting “or”, and by adding
at the end the following new clause:

“(xxix) section 6050AA(a) (relating to returns relating to applicable
passenger vehicle loan interest received in trade or business from
individuals), and”, and

(B) in paragraph (2), by striking “or” at the end of subparagraph (KK), by
striking the period at the end of subparagraph (LL) and inserting “, or”, and
by inserting after subparagraph (LL) the following new subparagraph:

“(MM) section 6050AA(b) (relating to statements relating to applicable
passenger vehicle loan interest received in trade or business from
individuals).”.

(d) Conforming amendments.—

(1) [Section
56(e)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=56)
is amended by striking “section 163(h)(4)” and inserting “section 163(h)(5)”.

(2) [Section
85](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=85) is
amended by striking subsection (c).

(3) [Section
86(b)(2)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=86)
is amended by inserting “163(h)(4),” after “137,”.

(4) [Section
135(c)(4)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=135)
is amended by inserting “163(h)(4),” after “137,”.

(5) [Section
137(b)(3)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=137)
is amended by inserting “, 163(h)(4),” after “85(c)”.

(6) [Section
219(g)(3)(A)(ii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=219)
is amended by inserting “163(h)(4),” after “137,”.

(7) [Section
221(b)(1)(C)(i)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=221)
is amended by inserting “, 163(h)(4),” after “85(c)”.

(8) [Section
469(i)(3)(E)(iii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=469)
is amended by inserting “163(h)(4),” after “sections”.

(9) The table of sections for subpart B of part III of subchapter A of
[chapter 61](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter61-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:

  
“Sec. 6050AA. Returns relating to applicable passenger vehicle loan interest
received in trade or business from individuals.”.

(e) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
indebtedness incurred after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 110105. Enhancement of employer-provided child care credit.

(a) Increase of amount of qualified child care expenditures taken into
account.—[Section
45F(a)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45F)
is amended by striking “25 percent” and inserting “40 percent (50 percent in
the case of an eligible small business)”.

(b) Increase of maximum credit amount.—Subsection (b) of [section
45F](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45F) is
amended to read as follows:

“(b) Dollar limitation.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The credit allowable under subsection (a) for any taxable
year shall not exceed $500,000 ($600,000 in the case of an eligible small
business).

“(2) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—In the case of any taxable year beginning after
2026, the $500,0000 and $600,000 amounts in paragraph (1) shall be increased
by an amount equal to—

“(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by

“(B) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the
calendar year in which the taxable year begins, determined by substituting
‘calendar year 2025’ for ‘calendar year 2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii)
thereof.”.

(c) Eligible small business.—[Section
45F(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45F) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(4) ELIGIBLE SMALL BUSINESS.—The term ‘eligible small business’ means a
business that meets the gross receipts test of section 448(c), determined—

“(A) by substituting ‘5-taxable-year’ for ‘3-taxable-year’ in paragraph (1)
thereof, and

“(B) by substituting ‘5-year’ for ‘3-year’ each place such term appears in
paragraph (3)(A) thereof.”.

(d) Credit allowed for third-party intermediaries.—[Section
45F(c)(1)(A)(iii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45F)
is amended by inserting “, or under a contract with an intermediate entity
that contracts with one or more qualified child care facilities to provide
such child care services” before the period at the end.

(e) Treatment of jointly owned or operated child care facility.—[Section
45F(c)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45F)
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) TREATMENT OF JOINTLY OWNED OR OPERATED CHILD CARE FACILITY.—A facility
shall not fail to be treated as a qualified child care facility of the
taxpayer merely because such facility is jointly owned or operated by the
taxpayer and other persons.”.

(f) Regulations and guidance.—[Section
45F](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45F) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(g) Regulations and guidance.—The Secretary shall issue such regulations or
other guidance as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section,
including guidance to carry out the purposes of paragraphs (1)(A)(iii) and
(2)(C) of subsection (c).”.

(g) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to amounts
paid or incurred after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110106.  Extension and enhancement of paid family and medical leave
credit.

(a) In general.—[Section
45S](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45S) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (a)—

(A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:

“(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section 38, in the case of an eligible
employer, the paid family and medical leave credit is an amount equal to
either of the following (as elected by such employer):

“(A) The applicable percentage of the amount of wages paid to qualifying
employees with respect to any period in which such employees are on family and
medical leave.

“(B) If such employer has an insurance policy with regards to the provision of
paid family and medical leave which is in force during the taxable year, the
applicable percentage of the total amount of premiums paid or incurred by such
employer during such taxable year with respect to such insurance policy.”, and

(B) by adding at the end the following:

“(3) RATE OF PAYMENT DETERMINED WITHOUT REGARD TO WHETHER LEAVE IS TAKEN.—For
purposes of determining the applicable percentage with respect to paragraph
(1)(B), the rate of payment under the insurance policy shall be determined
without regard to whether any qualifying employees were on family and medical
leave during the taxable year.”,

(2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking “credit allowed” and inserting “wages
taken into account”,

(3) in subsection (c), by striking paragraphs (3) and (4) and inserting the
following:

“(3) AGGREGATION RULE.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), all persons which are
treated as a single employer under subsections (b) and (c) of section 414
shall be treated as a single employer.

“(B) EXCEPTION.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to any person who
establishes to the satisfaction of the Secretary that such person has a
substantial and legitimate business reason for failing to provide a written
policy described in paragraph (1) or (2).

“(ii) SUBSTANTIAL AND LEGITIMATE BUSINESS REASON.—For purposes of clause (i),
the term ‘substantial and legitimate business reason’ shall not include the
operation of a separate line of business, the rate of wages or category of
jobs for employees (or any similar basis), or the application of State or
local laws relating to family and medical leave, but may include the grouping
of employees of a common law employer.

“(4) TREATMENT OF BENEFITS MANDATED OR PAID FOR BY STATE OR LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS.—For purposes of this section, any leave which is paid by a State
or local government or required by State or local law—

“(A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), shall be taken into account in
determining the amount of paid family and medical leave provided by the
employer, and

“(B) shall not be taken into account in determining the amount of the paid
family and medical leave credit under subsection (a).”,

(4) in subsection (d)—

(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting “(or, at the election of the employer, for
not less than 6 months)” after “1 year or more”, and

(B) in paragraph (2)—

(i) by inserting “, as determined on an annualized basis (pro-rata for part-
time employees),” after “compensation”, and

(ii) by striking the period at the end and inserting “, and”, and

(C) by adding at the end the following:

“(3) is customarily employed for not less than 20 hours per week.”, and

(5) by striking subsection (i).

(b) No double benefit.—[Section
280C(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=280C) is
amended—

(1) by striking “45S(a)” and inserting “45S(a)(1)(A)”, and

(2) by inserting after the first sentence the following: “No deduction shall
be allowed for that portion of the premiums paid or incurred for the taxable
year which is equal to that portion of the paid family and medical leave
credit which is determined for the taxable year under section 45S(a)(1)(B).”

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110107. Enhancement of adoption credit.

(a) In general.—[Section
23(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=23) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(4) PORTION OF CREDIT REFUNDABLE.—So much of the credit allowed under
paragraph (1) as does not exceed $5,000 shall be treated as a credit allowed
under subpart C and not as a credit allowed under this subpart.”.

(b) Adjustments for inflation.—[Section
23(h)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=23) is
amended to read as follows:

“(h) Adjustments for inflation.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31,
2002, each of the dollar amounts in paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (a)
and paragraphs (1) and (2)(A)(i) of subsection (b) shall be increased by an
amount equal to—

“(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by

“(B) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the
calendar year in which the taxable year begins, determined by substituting
‘calendar year 2001’ for ‘calendar year 2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.

“(2) ROUNDING.—If any amount as increased under paragraph (1) is not a
multiple of $10, such amount shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $10.

“(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR REFUNDABLE PORTION.—In the case of the dollar amount in
subsection (a)(4), paragraph (1) shall be applied—

“(A) by substituting ‘2025’ for ‘2002’ in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), and

“(B) by substituting ‘calendar year 2024’ for ‘calendar year 2001’ in
subparagraph (B) thereof.”.

(c) Exclusion of refundable portion of credit from carryforward.—[Section
23(c)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=23) is
amended by striking “credit allowable under subsection (a)” and inserting
“portion of the credit allowable under subsection (a) which is allowed under
this subpart”.

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 110108.  Recognizing Indian tribal governments for purposes of
determining whether a child has special needs for purposes of the adoption
credit.

(a) In general.—[Section
23(d)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=23) is
amended—

(1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting “or Indian tribal government” after “a
State”, and

(2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting “or Indian tribal government” after
“such State”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 110109.  Scholarship granting organizations.

(a) Allowance of credit for contributions of individuals to scholarship
granting organizations.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Subpart A of part IV of subchapter A of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting after
section 25E the following new section:

“SEC. 25F.  Qualified elementary and secondary education scholarships.

“(a) Allowance of credit.—In the case of an individual, there shall be allowed
as a credit against the tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year an
amount equal to the aggregate amount of qualified contributions made by the
taxpayer during the taxable year.

“(b) Limitations.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The credit allowed under subsection (a) to any taxpayer for
any taxable year shall not exceed an amount equal to the greater of—

“(A) 10 percent of the adjusted gross income of the taxpayer for the taxable
year, or

“(B) $5,000.

“(2) ALLOCATION OF VOLUME CAP.—The credit allowed under subsection (a) to any
taxpayer for any taxable year shall not exceed the amount of the volume cap
allocated by the Secretary to such taxpayer under subsection (g) with respect
to qualified contributions made by the taxpayer during the taxable year.

“(3) REDUCTION BASED ON STATE CREDIT.—The amount allowed as a credit under
subsection (a) for a taxable year shall be reduced by the amount allowed as a
credit on any State tax return of the taxpayer for qualified contributions
made by the taxpayer during the taxable year.

“(c) Definitions.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) ELIGIBLE STUDENT.—The term ‘eligible student’ means an individual who—

“(A) is a member of a household with an income which is not greater than 300
percent of the area median gross income (as such term is used in section 42),
and

“(B) is eligible to enroll in a public elementary or secondary school.

“(2) QUALIFIED CONTRIBUTION.—The term ‘qualified contribution’ means a
charitable contribution (as defined by section 170(c)) to a scholarship
granting organization in the form of cash or marketable securities.

“(3) QUALIFIED ELEMENTARY OR SECONDARY EDUCATION EXPENSE.—The term ‘qualified
elementary or secondary education expense’ means the following expenses in
connection with enrollment or attendance at, or for students enrolled at or
attending, an elementary or secondary public, private, or religious school:

“(A) Tuition.

“(B) Curriculum and curricular materials.

“(C) Books or other instructional materials.

“(D) Online educational materials.

“(E) Tuition for tutoring or educational classes outside of the home,
including at a tutoring facility, but only if the tutor or instructor is not
related to the student and—

“(i) is licensed as a teacher in any State,

“(ii) has taught at an eligible educational institution, or

“(iii) is a subject matter expert in the relevant subject.

“(F) Fees for a nationally standardized norm-referenced achievement test, an
advanced placement examination, or any examinations related to college or
university admission.

“(G) Fees for dual enrollment in an institution of higher education.

“(H) Educational therapies for students with disabilities provided by a
licensed or accredited practitioner or provider, including occupational,
behavioral, physical, and speech-language therapies.

Such term shall include expenses for the purposes described in subparagraphs
(A) through (H) in connection with a homeschool (whether treated as a
homeschool or a private school for purposes of applicable State law). No
amount paid to an elementary or secondary school shall be considered a
qualified elementary or secondary education expense for the purposes of this
section unless such school demonstrates that it maintains a policy whereby its
admissions standards do not take into account whether the student seeking
enrollment has a current individualized education plan, nor takes into account
that the student requires equitable services for a learning disability, and if
a student does have such an individualized education plan, the school abides
by the plan’s terms and provides services outlined therein.

“(4) SCHOLARSHIP GRANTING ORGANIZATION.—The term ‘scholarship granting
organization’ means any organization—

“(A) which—

“(i) is described in section 501(c)(3) and exempt from tax under section
501(a), and

“(ii) is not a private foundation,

“(B) substantially all of the activities of which are providing scholarships
for qualified elementary or secondary education expenses of eligible students,

“(C) which prevents the co-mingling of qualified contributions with other
amounts by maintaining one or more separate accounts exclusively for qualified
contributions, and

“(D) which either—

“(i) meets the requirements of subsection (d), or

“(ii) pursuant to State law, was able (as of the date of the enactment of this
section) to receive contributions that are eligible for a State tax credit if
such contributions are used by the organization to provide scholarships to
individual elementary and secondary students, including scholarships for
attending private schools.

“(d) Requirements for scholarship granting organizations.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—An organization meets the requirements of this subsection if—

“(A) such organization provides scholarships to 2 or more students, provided
that not all such students attend the same school,

“(B) such organization does not provide scholarships for any expenses other
than qualified elementary or secondary education expenses,

“(C) such organization provides a scholarship to eligible students with a
priority for—

“(i) students awarded a scholarship the previous school year, and

“(ii) after application of clause (i), any such students who have a sibling
who was awarded a scholarship from such organization,

“(D) such organization does not earmark or set aside contributions for
scholarships on behalf of any particular student,

“(E) such organization takes appropriate steps to verify the annual household
income and family size of eligible students to whom it awards scholarships,
and limits them to a member of a household for which the income does not
exceed the amount established under subsection (c)(1)(A),

“(F) such organization—

“(i) obtains from an independent certified public accountant annual financial
and compliance audits, and

“(ii) certifies to the Secretary (at such time, and in such form and manner,
as the Secretary may prescribe) that the audit described in clause (i) has
been completed, and

“(G) no officer or board member of such organization has been convicted of a
felony.

“(2) INCOME VERIFICATION.—For purposes of paragraph (1)(E), review of all of
the following (as applicable) shall be treated as satisfying the requirement
to take appropriate steps to verify annual household income:

“(A) Federal and State income tax returns or tax return transcripts with
applicable schedules for the taxable year prior to application.

“(B) Income reporting statements for tax purposes or wage and income
transcripts from the Internal Revenue Service.

“(C) Notarized income verification letter from employers.

“(D) Unemployment or workers compensation statements.

“(E) Budget letters regarding public assistance payments and Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) payments including a list of household
members.

“(3) INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT.—For purposes of paragraph
(1)(F), the term ‘independent certified public accountant’ means, with respect
to an organization, a certified public accountant who is not a person
described in section 465(b)(3)(A) with respect to such organization or any
employee of such organization.

“(4) PROHIBITION ON SELF-DEALING.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—A scholarship granting organization may not award a
scholarship to any disqualified person.

“(B) DISQUALIFIED PERSON.—For purposes of this paragraph, a disqualified
person shall be determined pursuant to rules similar to the rules of section
4946.

“(e) Denial of double benefit.—Any qualified contribution for which a credit
is allowed under this section shall not be taken into account as a charitable
contribution for purposes of section 170.

“(f) Carryforward of unused credit.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—If the credit allowable under subsection (a) for any taxable
year exceeds the limitation imposed by section 26(a) for such taxable year
reduced by the sum of the credits allowable under this subpart (other than
this section, section 23, and section 25D), such excess shall be carried to
the succeeding taxable year and added to the credit allowable under subsection
(a) for such taxable year.

“(2) LIMITATION.—No credit may be carried forward under this subsection to any
taxable year following the fifth taxable year after the taxable year in which
the credit arose. For purposes of the preceding sentence, credits shall be
treated as used on a first-in first-out basis.

“(g) Volume cap.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The volume cap applicable under this section shall be
$5,000,000,000 for each of calendar years 2026 through 2029, and zero for
calendar years thereafter. Such amount shall be allocated by the Secretary as
provided in paragraph (2) to taxpayers with respect to qualified contributions
made by such taxpayers, except that 10 percent of such amount shall be divided
evenly among the States, and shall be available with respect to individuals
residing in such States.

“(2) FIRST-COME, FIRST-SERVE.—For purposes of applying the volume cap under
this section, such volume cap for any calendar year shall be allocated by the
Secretary on a first-come, first-serve basis, as determined based on the time
(during such calendar year) at which the taxpayer made the qualified
contribution with respect to which the allocation is made. The Secretary shall
not make any allocation of volume cap for any calendar year after December 31
of such calendar year.

“(3) REAL-TIME INFORMATION.—For purposes of this section, the Secretary shall
develop a system to track the amount of qualified contributions made during
the calendar year for which a credit may be claimed under this section, with
such information to be updated in real time.

“(4) ANNUAL INCREASES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of the calendar year after a high-use calendar
year, the dollar amount otherwise in effect under paragraph (1) for such
calendar year shall be equal to 105 percent of the dollar amount in effect for
such high-use calendar year.

“(B) HIGH-USE CALENDAR YEAR.—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘high-
use calendar year’ means any calendar year for which 90 percent or more of the
volume cap in effect for such calendar year under paragraph (1) is allocated
to taxpayers.

“(C) PREVENTION OF DECREASES IN ANNUAL VOLUME CAP.—The volume cap in effect
under paragraph (1) for any calendar year shall not be less than the volume
cap in effect under such paragraph for the preceding calendar year.

“(D) PUBLICATION OF ANNUAL VOLUME CAP.—The Secretary shall make publicly
available the dollar amount of the volume cap in effect under paragraph (1)
for each calendar year.

“(5) STATES.—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘State’ includes the
District of Columbia.”.

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—

(A) [Section
25(e)(1)(C)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=25)
is amended by striking “and 25D” and inserting “25D, and 25F”.

(B) The table of sections for subpart A of part IV of subchapter A of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting after the
item relating to section 25E the following new item:

  
“Sec. 25F. Qualified elementary and secondary education scholarships.”.

(b) Exemption from gross income for scholarships for qualified elementary or
secondary education expenses of eligible students.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Part III of subchapter B of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting before
section 140 the following new section:

“SEC. 139J.  Scholarships for qualified elementary or secondary education
expenses of eligible students.

“(a) In general.—In the case of an individual, gross income shall not include
any amounts provided to any dependent of such individual pursuant to a
scholarship for qualified elementary or secondary education expenses of an
eligible student which is provided by a scholarship granting organization.

“(b) Definitions.—In this section, the terms ‘qualified elementary or
secondary education expense’, ‘eligible student’, and ‘scholarship granting
organization’ have the same meaning given such terms under section 25F(c).

“(c) Termination.—Subsection (a) shall not apply to amounts received after
December 31, 2029.”.

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of sections for part III of subchapter B
of [chapter 1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting before
the item relating to section 140 the following new item:

  
“Sec. 139J. Scholarships for qualified elementary or secondary education
expenses of eligible students.”.

(c) Failure of scholarship granting organizations to make distributions.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Chapter
42](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter42-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new subchapter:

“subchapter I—Scholarship Granting Organizations

  
“Sec. 4969. Failure to distribute receipts.

“SEC. 4969.  Failure to distribute receipts.

“(a) In general.—In the case of any scholarship granting organization (as
defined in section 25F) which has been determined by the Secretary to have
failed to satisfy the requirement under subsection (b) for any taxable year,
any contribution made to such organization during the first taxable year
beginning after the date of such determination shall not be treated as a
qualified contribution (as defined in section 25F(c)(2)) for purposes of
section 25F.

“(b) Requirement.—The requirement described in this subsection is that the
amount of receipts of the scholarship granting organization for the taxable
year which are distributed before the distribution deadline with respect to
such receipts shall not be less than the required distribution amount with
respect to such taxable year.

“(c) Definitions.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) REQUIRED DISTRIBUTION AMOUNT.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The required distribution amount with respect to a taxable
year is the amount equal to 100 percent of the total receipts of the
scholarship granting organization for such taxable year—

“(i) reduced by the sum of such receipts that are retained for reasonable
administrative expenses for the taxable year or are carried to the succeeding
taxable year under subparagraph (C), and

“(ii) increased by the amount of the carryover under subparagraph (C) from the
preceding taxable year.

“(B) SAFE HARBOR FOR REASONABLE ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—For purposes of
subparagraph (A)(i), if the percentage of total receipts of a scholarship
granting organization for a taxable year which are used for administrative
purposes is equal to or less than 10 percent, such expenses shall be deemed to
be reasonable for purposes of such subparagraph.

“(C) CARRYOVER.—With respect to the amount of the total receipts of a
scholarship granting organization with respect to any taxable year, an amount
not greater than 15 percent of such amount may, at the election of such
organization, be carried to the succeeding taxable year.

“(2) DISTRIBUTIONS.—The term ‘distribution’ includes amounts which are
formally committed but not distributed. A formal commitment described in the
preceding sentence may include contributions set aside for eligible students
for more than one year.

“(3) DISTRIBUTION DEADLINE.—The distribution deadline with respect to receipts
for a taxable year is the first day of the third taxable year following the
taxable year in which such receipts are received by the scholarship granting
organization.”.

(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of subchapters for [chapter
42](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter42-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:

“SUBCHAPTER I—SCHOLARSHIP GRANTING ORGANIZATIONS”.

(d) Effective date.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the
amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years ending after
December 31, 2025.

(2) EXEMPTION FROM GROSS INCOME.—The amendments made by subsection (b) shall
apply to amounts received after December 31, 2025, in taxable years ending
after such date.

(e) Organizational and parental autonomy.—

(1) PROHIBITION OF CONTROL OVER SCHOLARSHIP ORGANIZATIONS.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—

(i) TREATMENT.—A scholarship granting organization shall not, by virtue of
participation under any provision of this section or any amendment made by
this section, be regarded as acting on behalf of any governmental entity.

(ii) NO GOVERNMENTAL CONTROL.—Nothing in this section, or any amendment made
by this section, shall be construed to permit, allow, encourage, or authorize
any Federal, State, or local government entity, or officer or employee
thereof, to mandate, direct, or control any aspect of any scholarship granting
organization.

(iii) MAXIMUM FREEDOM.—To the extent permissible by law, this section, and any
amendment made by this section, shall be construed to allow scholarship
granting organizations maximum freedom to provide for the needs of the
participants without governmental control.

(B) PROHIBITION OF CONTROL OVER NON-PUBLIC SCHOOLS.—

(i) NO GOVERNMENTAL CONTROL.—Nothing in this section, or any amendment made by
this section, shall be construed to permit, allow, encourage, or authorize any
Federal, State, or local government entity, or officer or employee thereof, to
mandate, direct, or control any aspect of any private or religious elementary
or secondary education institution.

(ii) NO EXCLUSION OF PRIVATE OR RELIGIOUS SCHOOLS.—No Federal, State, or local
government entity, or officer or employee thereof, shall impose or permit the
imposition of any conditions or requirements that would exclude or operate to
exclude educational expenses at private or religious elementary and secondary
education institutions from being considered qualified elementary or secondary
education expenses.

(iii) NO EXCLUSION OF QUALIFIED EXPENSES DUE TO INSTITUTION'S RELIGIOUS
CHARACTER OR AFFILIATION.—No Federal, State, or local government entity, or
officer or employee thereof, shall exclude, discriminate against, or otherwise
disadvantage any elementary or secondary education institution with respect to
qualified elementary or secondary education expenses at that institution based
in whole or in part on the institution’s religious character or affiliation,
including religiously based or mission-based policies or practices.

(C) PARENTAL RIGHTS TO USE SCHOLARSHIPS.—No Federal, State, or local
government entity, or officer or employee thereof, shall disfavor or
discourage the use of scholarships granted by participating scholarship
granting organizations for qualified elementary or secondary education
expenses at private or nonprofit elementary and secondary education
institutions, including faith-based schools.

(D) PARENTAL RIGHT TO INTERVENE.—In any action filed in any State or Federal
court which challenges the constitutionality (under the constitution of such
State or the Constitution of the United States) of any provision of this
section (or any amendment made by this section), any parent of an eligible
student who has received a scholarship from a scholarship granting
organization shall have the right to intervene in support of the
constitutionality of such provision or amendment. To avoid duplication of
efforts and reduce the burdens placed on the parties to the action, the court
in any such action may require interveners taking similar positions to file
joint papers or to be represented by a single attorney at oral argument,
provided that the court does not require such interveners to join any brief
filed on behalf of any State which is a defendant in such action.

(2) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection, the terms “eligible
student”, “scholarship granting organization”, and “qualified elementary or
secondary education expense” shall have the same meanings given such terms
under [section
25F(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=25F) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as added by this Act).

SEC. 110110. Additional elementary, secondary, and home school expenses
treated as qualified higher education expenses for purposes of 529 accounts.

(a) In general.—[Section
529(c)(7)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=529)
is amended to read as follows:

“(7) TREATMENT OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY TUITION.—Any reference in this
section to the term ‘qualified higher education expense’ shall include a
reference to the following expenses in connection with enrollment or
attendance at, or for students enrolled at or attending, an elementary or
secondary public, private, or religious school:

“(A) Tuition.

“(B) Curriculum and curricular materials.

“(C) Books or other instructional materials.

“(D) Online educational materials.

“(E) Tuition for tutoring or educational classes outside of the home,
including at a tutoring facility, but only if the tutor or instructor is not
related to the student and—

“(i) is licensed as a teacher in any State,

“(ii) has taught at an eligible educational institution, or

“(iii) is a subject matter expert in the relevant subject.

“(F) Fees for a nationally standardized norm-referenced achievement test, an
advanced placement examination, or any examinations related to college or
university admission.

“(G) Fees for dual enrollment in an institution of higher education.

“(H) Educational therapies for students with disabilities provided by a
licensed or accredited practitioner or provider, including occupational,
behavioral, physical, and speech-language therapies.

Such term shall include expenses for the purposes described in subparagraphs
(A) through (H) in connection with a homeschool (whether treated as a
homeschool or a private school for purposes of applicable State law).”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to
distributions made after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 110111. Certain postsecondary credentialing expenses treated as qualified
higher education expenses for purposes of 529 accounts.

(a) In general.—[Section
529(e)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=529)
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) CERTAIN POSTSECONDARY CREDENTIALING EXPENSES.—The term ‘qualified higher
education expenses’ includes qualified postsecondary credentialing expenses
(as defined in subsection (f)).”.

(b) Qualified postsecondary credentialing expenses.—[Section
529](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=529) is
amended by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g) and by inserting
after subsection (e) the following new subsection:

“(f) Qualified postsecondary credentialing expenses.—For purposes of this
section—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified postsecondary credentialing expenses’
means—

“(A) tuition, fees, books, supplies, and equipment required for the enrollment
or attendance of a designated beneficiary in a recognized postsecondary
credential program, or any other expense incurred in connection with
enrollment in or attendance at a recognized postsecondary credential program
if such expense would, if incurred in connection with enrollment or attendance
at an eligible educational institution, be covered under subsection (e)(3)(A),

“(B) fees for testing if such testing is required to obtain or maintain a
recognized postsecondary credential, and

“(C) fees for continuing education if such education is required to maintain a
recognized postsecondary credential.

“(2) RECOGNIZED POSTSECONDARY CREDENTIAL PROGRAM.—The term ‘recognized
postsecondary credential program’ means any program to obtain a recognized
postsecondary credential if—

“(A) such program is included on a State list prepared under section 122(d) of
the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ([29 U.S.C.
3152(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=29&section=3152)),

“(B) such program is listed in the WEAMS Public directory (or successor
directory) maintained by the Department of Veterans Affairs,

“(C) an examination (developed or administered by an organization widely
recognized as providing reputable credentials in the occupation) is required
to obtain or maintain such credential and such organization recognizes such
program as providing training or education which prepares individuals to take
such examination, or

“(D) such program is identified by the Secretary, after consultation with the
Secretary of Labor, as being a reputable program for obtaining a recognized
postsecondary credential for purposes of this subsection.

“(3) RECOGNIZED POSTSECONDARY CREDENTIAL.—The term ‘recognized postsecondary
credential’ means—

“(A) any postsecondary employment credential that is industry recognized,
including—

“(i) any postsecondary employment credential issued by a program that is
accredited by the Institute for Credentialing Excellence, the National
Commission on Certifying Agencies, or the American National Standards
Institute,

“(ii) any postsecondary employment credential that is included in the
Credentialing Opportunities On-Line (COOL) directory of credentialing programs
(or successor directory) maintained by the Department of Defense or by any
branch of the Armed Services, and

“(iii) any postsecondary employment credential identified for purposes of this
clause by the Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary of Labor, as
being industry recognized,

“(B) any certificate of completion of an apprenticeship that is registered and
certified with the Secretary of Labor under the National Apprenticeship Act
([29 U.S.C.
50](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=29&section=50)),

“(C) any occupational or professional license issued or recognized by a State
or the Federal Government (and any certification that satisfies a condition
for obtaining such a license), and

“(D) any recognized postsecondary credential as defined in section 3 of the
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ([29 U.S.C.
3102](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=29&section=3102)).”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
distributions made after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 110112. Reinstatement of partial deduction for charitable contributions
of individuals who do not elect to itemize.

(a) In general.—[Section
170(p)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=170) is
amended—

(1) by striking “$300 ($600” and inserting “$150 ($300”, and

(2) by striking “in 2021” and inserting “after December 31, 2024, and before
January 1, 2029”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 110113. Exclusion for certain employer payments of student loans under
educational assistance programs made permanent and adjusted for inflation.

(a) In general.—[Section
127(c)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=127)
is amended by striking “in the case of payments made before January 1, 2026,”.

(b) Inflation adjustment.—[Section
127](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=127) is
amended—

(1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e), and

(2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection:

“(d) Inflation adjustment.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any taxable year beginning after 2026, both of
the $5,250 amounts in subsection (a)(2) shall be increased by an amount equal
to—

“(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by

“(B) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the
calendar year in which the taxable year begins, determined by substituting
‘calendar year 2025’ for ‘calendar year 2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.

“(2) ROUNDING.—If any increase under paragraph (1) is not a multiple of $50,
such increase shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $50.”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to payments
made after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110114.  Extension of rules for treatment of certain disaster-related
personal casualty losses.

For purposes of applying section 304(b) of the Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster
Tax Relief Act of 2020 (division EE of [Public Law
116–260](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-116publ260/pdf/PLAW-116publ260.pdf)),
section 301 of such Act shall be applied by substituting the date of the
enactment of this section for “the date of the enactment of this Act” each
place it appears.

SEC. 110115. Trump accounts.

(a) In general.—Subchapter F of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new part:

“PART IX—Trump accounts

“SEC. 530A.  Trump accounts.

“(a) General rule.—A Trump account shall be exempt from taxation under this
subtitle. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, such account shall be
subject to the taxes imposed by section 511 (relating to imposition of tax on
unrelated business income of charitable organizations).

“(b) Trump account.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘Trump account’ means a trust created or organized
in the United States for the exclusive benefit of an individual and which is
designated (in such manner as the Secretary shall prescribe) at the time of
the establishment of the trust as a Trump account, but only if the written
governing instrument creating the trust meets the following requirements:

“(A) The individual establishing the account shall provide to the trustee the
social security number of such individual and of the account beneficiary.

“(B) Except in the case of a qualified rollover contribution described in
subsection (e), no contribution will be accepted—

“(i) before January 1, 2026,

“(ii) unless it is in cash,

“(iii) unless the account beneficiary has not attained age 18, and

“(iv) if such contribution would result in aggregate contributions for the
taxable year exceeding the contribution limit specified in subsection (c)(1).

“(C) No distribution (other than a distribution of a qualified rollover
contribution) will be allowed—

“(i) before the date on which the account beneficiary attains age 18, or

“(ii) in the case of such an account the account beneficiary of which has not
attained age 25, if the aggregate distributions from such account exceeds the
amount that is ½ the cash equivalent value of the account on the date on which
the account beneficiary attains age 18.

“(D) The account beneficiary has not attained age 8 on the date of the
establishment of the account.

“(E) The trustee is a bank (as defined in section 408(n)) or another person
who demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the manner in which
that person will administer the trust will be consistent with the requirements
of this section or who has so demonstrated with respect to any individual
retirement plan.

“(F) The interest of an individual in the balance of his account is
nonforfeitable.

“(G) The assets of the trust shall not be commingled with other property
except in a common trust fund or common investment fund.

“(H) No part of the trust funds will be invested in any asset other than
eligible investments.

“(2) ELIGIBLE INVESTMENTS.—The term ‘eligible investments’ means stock of a
regulated investment company (within the meaning of section 851) which—

“(A) tracks a well-established index of United States equities (or which
invests in an equivalent diversified portfolio of United States equities),

“(B) does not use leverage,

“(C) minimizes fees and expenses, and

“(D) meets such other criteria as the Secretary determines appropriate for
purposes of this section.

“(3) ACCOUNT BENEFICIARY.—The term ‘account beneficiary’ means the individual
on whose behalf the Trump account was established.

“(c) Treatment of contributions.—

“(1) CONTRIBUTION LIMIT.—The contribution limit for any taxable year is
$5,000.

“(2) CONTRIBUTIONS FROM TAX EXEMPT SOURCES AND ROLLOVER CONTRIBUTIONS.—The
amount contributed to a Trump account for purposes of paragraph (1) shall be
determined without regard to—

“(A) a qualified rollover contribution,

“(B) any contribution from the Federal Government or any State, local, or
tribal government, or

“(C) any contribution made through the program established under subsection
(l).

“(3) COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any taxable year beginning in a calendar year
after 2026, the $5,000 amount under paragraph (1) shall be increased by an
amount equal to—

“(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by

“(ii) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the
calendar year, determined by substituting ‘calendar year 2025’ for ‘calendar
year 2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.

“(B) ROUNDING.—If any increase under subparagraph (A) is not a multiple of
$100, such amount shall be rounded to the next lower multiple of $100.

“(d) Distributions.—

“(1) AMOUNTS ALLOCABLE TO INVESTMENT IN THE CONTRACT.—A distribution from a
Trump account of an amount allocable to the investment in the contract shall
not be includible in the gross income of the distributee.

“(2) AMOUNTS ALLOCABLE TO INCOME ON THE CONTRACT USED FOR QUALIFIED
EXPENSES.—A distribution from a Trump account of an amount allocable to income
on the contract and which is used exclusively to pay for qualified expenses
shall be includible in net capital gain of the distributee under section
1(h)(12).

“(3) AMOUNTS INCLUDIBLE IN GROSS INCOME.—Any distribution from a Trump account
which is not described in paragraph (1) or (2) shall be includible in the
gross income of the distributee.

“(4) QUALIFIED EXPENSES.—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘qualified
expenses’ means any of the following expenses paid or incurred for the benefit
of the account beneficiary:

“(A) Qualified higher education expenses (as defined in section 529(e)(3))
determined without regard to section 529(c)(7).

“(B) Qualified post-secondary credentialing expenses (as defined in section
529(f)).

“(C) Under regulations provided by the Secretary, amounts paid or incurred
with respect to any small businesses for which the beneficiary has obtained
any small business loan, small farm loan, or similar loan.

“(D) Any amount used for the purchase (as defined in section 36(c)(3)) of the
principal residence (as used in section 121) of the account beneficiary if
such account beneficiary is a first-time homebuyer (as defined in section
36(c)(1)) with respect to such purchase.

“(5) EXCEPTIONS.—Paragraphs (2) and (3) shall not apply to any distribution
which is a qualified rollover contribution.

“(6) ADDITIONAL TAX ON CERTAIN DISTRIBUTIONS.—In the case of a distributee who
has not attained age 30, the tax imposed by this chapter on the account
beneficiary for any taxable year in which there is a distribution from a Trump
account of such beneficiary which is includible in gross income under
paragraph (3) shall be increased by 10 percent of the amount which is so
includible.

“(e) Qualified rollover contribution.—For purposes of this section, the term
‘qualified rollover contribution’ means an amount which is paid in a direct
trustee-to-trustee transfer from a Trump account maintained for the benefit of
the account beneficiary to a Trump account maintained for such beneficiary.

“(f) Treatment after death of account beneficiary.—Rules similar to the rules
of section 223(f)(8) shall apply for purposes of this section.

“(g) Determinations of aggregate distributions and investment in contract in
the case of certain rollover contributions.—In the case of a qualified
rollover contribution which is described in subsection (e)(2), any
determination required under this section of the amount of the investment of
the contract or of aggregate distributions from the Trump account shall be
determined with respect to the aggregate of such amounts for all Trump
accounts of the same account beneficiary.

“(h) Custodial accounts.—For purposes of this section, a custodial account
shall be treated as a trust under this section if—

“(1) the custodial account would, except for the fact that it is not a trust,
constitute a trust which meets the requirements of subsection (b)(1), and

“(2) the assets of such account are held by a bank (as defined in section
408(n)) or another person who demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the
Secretary, that the manner in which he will administer the account will be
consistent with the requirements of this section.

For purposes of this title, in the case of a custodial account treated as a
trust by reason of the preceding sentence, the person holding the assets of
such account shall be treated as the trustee thereof.

“(i) Termination.—

“(1) AGE 31.—Upon the date on which the account beneficiary attains age 31, a
Trump account shall cease to be a Trump account and the amount in such account
shall be treated as distributed for purposes of subsection (d).

“(2) MULTIPLE ACCOUNTS OF ONE BENEFICIARY.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any duplicate Trump account of any account
beneficiary other than a Trump account which is established by the deposit
through a qualified rollover contribution of the entire amount of another
Trump account of the account beneficiary—

“(i) such duplicate Trump account shall cease to be a Trump account and the
amount in such account shall be treated as distributed for purposes of
subsection (d), and

“(ii) there is imposed an excise tax on the account beneficiary in an amount
equal to so much of cash value of the account as is allocable to income on the
contract.

“(B) WITHHOLDING REQUIREMENT.—In the case of an account terminated under
subparagraph (A), the trustee shall deduct and withhold upon the amount to be
distributed the amount in excess described in subparagraph (A)(ii).

“(C) NOTIFICATION.—The Secretary, upon determining that a duplicate account
exists, shall provide a notice to the account beneficiary of such duplicate
account (and the account custodian, in the case of a custodial account) and to
each trustee of any Trump account of the account beneficiary of such duplicate
account which identifies each Trump account of such beneficiary and the
trustee of each such account.

“(D) DUPLICATE ACCOUNT.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘duplicate
account’ means—

“(i) in the case of an account beneficiary for the benefit of whom an account
was established by the Secretary under section 6434, any other Trump account
of such account beneficiary, or

“(ii) in the case of any other account beneficiary, any Trump account
established after the first Trump account established for the benefit of such
account beneficiary.

“(j) Investment in the contract.—For purposes of this section, rules similar
to the rules applied to a qualified tuition program (as defined in section
529(b)) under section 72(e)(9) shall apply for purposes of determining the
investment in the contract, except that such amount shall be determined
without regard to any contribution which is described in subsection (c)(2).

“(k) Reports.—The trustee of a Trump account shall make such reports regarding
such account to the Secretary and to the beneficiary of the account with
respect to contributions, distributions, the amount of investment in the
contract, and such other matters as the Secretary may require. The reports
required by this subsection shall be filed at such time and in such manner and
furnished to such individuals at such time and in such manner as may be
required.

“(l) Contributions to predominately unrelated children.—The Secretary shall
establish a program through which contributions may be made to the Trump
accounts of a large group of account beneficiaries if—

“(1) the contribution is made by any person described in any paragraph of
section 501(c) and exempt from taxation under section 501(a),

“(2) such accounts are selected on the basis of the location of the residence
of the account beneficiaries, the school district in which such beneficiaries
attend school, or another basis the Secretary determines appropriate, and

“(3) all individuals who are account beneficiaries of such an account who meet
the selected criteria receive an equal portion of the contribution.”.

(b) Distribution taxed at same rate as net capital gains.—[Section
1(h)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(12) DISTRIBUTIONS FROM TRUMP ACCOUNT TAXED AS NET CAPITAL GAIN.—For purposes
of this subsection, the term ‘net capital gain’ means the net capital gain
(determined without regard to this paragraph) increased by the amount
includible in net capital gain under this paragraph by reason of section
530A(d)(2).”.

(c) Tax on excess contributions.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
4973(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=4973) is
amended by striking “or” at the end of paragraph (5), by inserting “or” at the
end of paragraph (6), and by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new
paragraph:

“(7) a Trump account (as defined in section 530A(b)),”.

(2) EXCESS CONTRIBUTION.—[Section
4973](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=4973) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(i) Excess contributions to a Trump account.—For purposes of this section, in
the case of Trump accounts (within the meaning of section 530A), the term
‘excess contributions’ means the sum of—

“(1) the amount by which the amount contributed for the calendar year to such
account (other than qualified rollover contributions (as defined in section
530A(e))) exceeds the contribution limit under section 530A(c)(1) (determined
without regard to contributions described in section 530A(c)(2)), and

“(2) the amount determined under this subsection for the preceding calendar
year, reduced by the excess (if any) of the maximum amount allowable as a
contribution under section 530A(c)(1) (as so determined) for the calendar year
over the amount contributed to the account for the calendar year (other than
qualified rollover contributions (as so defined)).”.

(d) Disclosure of return information to facilitate certain
contributions.—[Section
6103(l)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6103) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(23) DISCLOSURE OF RETURN INFORMATION TO ENABLE CERTAIN CONTRIBUTIONS TO
TRUMP ACCOUNTS.—Upon written request signed by the head of the bureau or
office of the Department of the Treasury requesting the inspection or
disclosure, the Secretary may disclose the following return information with
respect to a Trump account (as defined in section 503A(b)) to officers and
employees of such bureau or office to the extent that such disclosure is
necessary to carry out section 530A(l):

“(A) Information necessary to identify the account holders in a particular
class of beneficiaries identified by a donor as the intended recipients.

“(B) The name, address, and social security number of a beneficiary.

“(C) The account custodian and the address of such custodian.

“(D) The account number.

“(E) The routing number.

“(F) To the extent determined by the Secretary in regulations, such other
return information as the Secretary determines necessary to ensure proper
routing of funds

Return information disclosed under this paragraph may only be used to identify
account holders in a particular class of beneficiaries or for the proper
routing of funds and may not be redisclosed by the Secretary.”.

(e) Failure to provide reports on Trump accounts.—[Section
6693(a)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6693)
is amended by striking “and” at the end of subparagraph (E), by striking the
period at the end of subparagraph (F) and inserting “, and”, and by adding at
the end the following new subparagraph:

“(G) section 530A(h) (relating to Trump accounts).”.

(f) Conforming amendment.—The table of parts for subchapter F of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:

“Part IX. Trump accounts”.

(g) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 110116.  Trump accounts contribution pilot program.

(a) In general.—Subchapter B of [chapter
65](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter65-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:

“SEC. 6434.  Trump accounts contribution pilot program.

“(a) In general.—In the case of any taxpayer with respect to whom an eligible
individual is a qualifying child, there shall be allowed a one-time credit of
$1,000 with respect to each such eligible individual who is a qualifying child
of such taxpayer which shall be payable by the Secretary only to the Trump
account with respect to which such eligible individual is the account
beneficiary.

“(b) Account established by Secretary.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any eligible individual that the Secretary
determines is not the account beneficiary of any Trump account as of the
qualifying date of such eligible individual, the Secretary shall establish an
account for the benefit of such eligible individual.

“(2) QUALIFYING DATE.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the term ‘qualifying
date’ means, with respect to an eligible individual, the first date on which a
return of tax is filed by an individual with respect to whom such eligible
individual is a qualifying child with respect to the taxable year to which
such return relates.

“(3) NOTIFICATION.—In the case of any eligible individual for the benefit of
whom the Secretary establishes an account under paragraph (1), the Secretary
shall—

“(A) notify any individual with respect to whom such eligible individual is a
qualifying child for the taxable year described in paragraph (2) of the
establishment of such account, and

“(B) shall provide an opportunity to such individual to elect to decline the
application of this subsection to such qualifying child.

“(4) DETERMINATION OF DEFAULT TRUSTEE.—For purposes of selecting a trustee for
an account established under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall take into
account—

“(A) the history of reliability and regulatory compliance of such trustee,

“(B) the customer service experience of such trustee,

“(C) the costs imposed by such trustee on the account or account beneficiary,
and

“(D) to the extent practicable, the preferences of any individual described in
paragraph (3)(A) with respect to such eligible individual.

“(c) Eligible individual.—For purposes of subsection (a), the term eligible
individual means an individual—

“(1) who is born after December 31, 2024, and before January 1, 2029, and

“(2) who is a United States citizen at birth.

“(d) Social security number required.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—No credit shall be allowed under subsection (a) to a taxpayer
unless such taxpayer includes on the return of tax for the taxable year—

“(A) such individual’s social security number,

“(B) if such individual is married, the social security number of such
individual’s spouse, and

“(C) the social security number of the eligible individual with respect to
whom such credit is allowed.

“(2) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER DEFINED.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the term
‘social security number’ shall have the meaning given such term in section
24(h)(7).

“(e) Definitions.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) QUALIFYING CHILD.—The term qualifying child has the meaning given such
term in section 152(c).

“(2) TRUMP ACCOUNT; ACCOUNT BENEFICIARY.—The terms ‘Trump account’ and
‘account beneficiary’ have the meaning given such terms in section 530A(b).”.

(b) Penalty for negligent claim or fraudulent claim.—Part I of subchapter A of
chapter 68 of subtitle F is amended by adding at the end the following new
section:

“SEC. 6659.  Improper claim for Trump account contribution pilot program
credit.

“(a) In general.—In the case of any taxpayer that makes an excessive claim for
a credit under section 6434—

“(1) if such excess is a result of negligence or disregard of the rules or
regulations, there shall be imposed a penalty of $500, or

“(2) if such excess is a result of fraud, there shall be imposed a penalty of
$1,000.

“(b) Definitions.—The terms ‘negligence’ and ‘disregard’ have the same meaning
as when such terms are used in section 6662.”.

(c) Omission of correct social security number treated mathematical or
clerical error.—Section 6213(g)(2), as amended by the preceding provisions of
this Act, is amended by striking “and” at the end of subparagraph (Y), by
striking the period at the end of subparagraph (Z) and inserting “, and” , and
by inserting after subparagraph (Z) the following new subparagraph:

“(AA) an omission of a correct social security number required under section
6434(d)(1) (relating to the Trump accounts contribution pilot program).”.

(d) Clerical amendments.—

(1) The table of sections for subchapter B of [chapter
65](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter65-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:

  
“Sec. 6434. Trump accounts contribution pilot program.”.

(2) The table of sections for part I of subchapter A of chapter 68 of subtitle
F is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 6658 the
following new item:

  
“Sec. 6659. Improper claim for Trump account contribution pilot program
credit.”.

(e) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2024.

PART 3—Investing in Health of American Families and Workers

SEC. 110201.  Treatment of health reimbursement arrangements integrated with
individual market coverage.

(a) In general.—[Section
9815(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=9815) is
amended—

(1) by striking “Exception.—Notwithstanding subsection (a)” and inserting the
following: “Exceptions.—

“(1) SELF-INSURED GROUP HEALTH PLANS.—Notwithstanding subsection (a)”, and

(2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(2) CUSTOM HEALTH OPTION AND INDIVIDUAL CARE EXPENSE ARRANGEMENTS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this subchapter, a custom health option and
individual care expense arrangement shall be treated as meeting the
requirements of section 9802 and sections 2705, 2711, 2713, and 2715 of title
XXVII of the Public Health Service Act.

“(B) CUSTOM HEALTH OPTION AND INDIVIDUAL CARE EXPENSE ARRANGEMENTS
DEFINED.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘custom health option and
individual care expense arrangement’ means a health reimbursement arrangement—

“(i) which is an employer-provided group health plan funded solely by employer
contributions to provide payments or reimbursements for medical care subject
to a maximum fixed dollar amount for a period,

“(ii) under which such payments or reimbursements may only be made for medical
care provided during periods during which the individual is covered—

“(I) under individual health insurance coverage (other than coverage that
consists solely of excepted benefits), or

“(II) under part A and B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act or part C
of such title,

“(iii) which meets the nondiscrimination requirements of subparagraph (C),

“(iv) which meets the substantiation requirements of subparagraph (D), and

“(v) which meets the notice requirements of subparagraph (E).

“(C) NONDISCRIMINATION.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—An arrangement meets the requirements of this subparagraph if
an employer offering such arrangement to an employee within a specified class
of employee—

“(I) offers such arrangement to all employees within such specified class on
the same terms, and

“(II) does not offer any other group health plan (other than an account-based
group health plan or a group health plan that consists solely of excepted
benefits) to any employees within such specified class.

In the case of an employer who offers a group health plan provided through
health insurance coverage in the small group market (that is subject to
section 2701 of the Public Health Service Act) to all employees within such
specified class, subclause (II) shall not apply to such group health plan.

“(ii) SPECIFIED CLASS OF EMPLOYEE.—For purposes of this subparagraph, any of
the following may be designated as a specified class of employee:

“(I) Full-time employees.

“(II) Part-time employees.

“(III) Salaried employees.

“(IV) Non-salaried employees.

“(V) Employees whose primary site of employment is in the same rating area.

“(VI) Employees who are included in a unit of employees covered under a
collective bargaining agreement to which the employer is subject (determined
under rules similar to the rules of section 105(h)).

“(VII) Employees who have not met a group health plan, or health insurance
issuer offering group health insurance coverage, waiting period requirement
that satisfies section 2708 of the Public Health Service Act.

“(VIII) Seasonal employees.

“(IX) Employees who are nonresident aliens and who receive no earned income
(within the meaning of section 911(d)(2)) from the employer which constitutes
income from sources within the United States (within the meaning of section
861(a)(3)).

“(X) Such other classes of employees as the Secretary may designate.

An employer may designate (in such manner as is prescribed by the Secretary)
two or more of the classes described in the preceding subclauses as the
specified class of employees to which the arrangement is offered for purposes
of applying this subparagraph.

“(iii) SPECIAL RULE FOR NEW HIRES.—An employer may designate prospectively so
much of a specified class of employees as are hired after a date set by the
employer. Such subclass of employees shall be treated as the specified class
for purposes of applying clause (i).

“(iv) RULES FOR DETERMINING TYPE OF EMPLOYEE.—For purposes for clause (ii),
any determination of full-time, part-time, or seasonal employment status shall
be made under rules similar to the rules of section 105(h) or 4980H, whichever
the employer elects for the plan year. Such election shall apply with respect
to all employees of the employer for the plan year.

“(v) PERMITTED VARIATION.—For purposes of clause (i)(I), an arrangement shall
not fail to be treated as provided on the same terms within a specified class
merely because the maximum dollar amount of payments and reimbursements which
may be made under the terms of the arrangement for the year with respect to
each employee within such class—

“(I) increases as additional dependents of the employee are covered under the
arrangement, and

“(II) increases with respect to a participant as the age of the participant
increases, but not in excess of an amount equal to 300 percent of the lowest
maximum dollar amount with respect to such a participant determined without
regard to age.

“(D) SUBSTANTIATION REQUIREMENTS.—An arrangement meets the requirements of
this subparagraph if the arrangement has reasonable procedures to
substantiate—

“(i) that the participant and any dependents are, or will be, enrolled in
coverage described in subparagraph (B)(ii) as of the beginning of the plan
year of the arrangement (or as of the beginning of coverage under the
arrangement in the case of an employee who first becomes eligible to
participate in the arrangement after the date notice is given with respect to
the plan under subparagraph (E) (determined without regard to clause (iii)
thereof), and

“(ii) any requests made for payment or reimbursement of medical care under the
arrangement and that the participant and any dependents remain so enrolled.

“(E) NOTICE.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (iii), an arrangement meets the
requirements of this subparagraph if, under the arrangement, each employee
eligible to participate is, not later than 60 days before the beginning of the
plan year, given written notice of the employee’s rights and obligations under
the arrangement which—

“(I) is sufficiently accurate and comprehensive to apprise the employee of
such rights and obligations, and

“(II) is written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average
employee eligible to participate.

“(ii) NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.—Such notice shall include such information as the
Secretary may by regulation prescribe.

“(iii) NOTICE DEADLINE FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES.—In the case of an employee—

“(I) who first becomes eligible to participate in the arrangement after the
date notice is given with respect to the plan under clause (i) (determined
without regard to this clause), or

“(II) whose employer is first established fewer than 120 days before the
beginning of the first plan year of the arrangement,

the requirements of this subparagraph shall be treated as met if the notice
required under clause (i) is provided not later than the date the arrangement
may take effect with respect to such employee.”.

(b) Inclusion of CHOICE arrangement permitted benefits on W–2.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 6051(a), as amended by the preceding provisions of
this Act, is amended by striking “and” at the end of paragraph (18), by
striking the period at the end of paragraph (19) and inserting “, and”, and by
inserting after paragraph (19) the following new paragraph:

“(20) the total amount of permitted benefits for enrolled individuals under a
custom health option and individual care expense arrangement (as defined in
section 9815(b)(2)) with respect to such employee.”.

(c) Treatment of current rules relating to certain arrangements.—

(1) NO INFERENCE.—To the extent not inconsistent with the amendments made by
this section—

(A) no inference shall be made from such amendments with respect to the rules
prescribed in the Federal Register on June 20, 2019, (84 Fed. Reg. 28888)
relating to health reimbursement arrangements and other account-based group
health plans, and

(B) any reference to custom health option and individual care expense
arrangements shall for purposes of such rules be treated as including a
reference to individual coverage health reimbursement arrangements.

(2) OTHER CONFORMING OF RULES.—The Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Labor shall modify such rules
as may be necessary to conform to the amendments made by this section.

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to plan
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110202.  Participants in CHOICE arrangement eligible for purchase of
Exchange insurance under cafeteria plan.

(a) In general.—[Section
125(f)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=125)
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) EXCEPTION FOR PARTICIPANTS IN CHOICE ARRANGEMENT.—Subparagraph (A) shall
not apply in the case of an employee participating in a custom health option
and individual care expense arrangement (within the meaning of section
9815(b)(2)) offered by the employee’s employer.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110203.  Employer credit for CHOICE arrangement.

(a) In general.—Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:

“SEC. 45BB.  Employer credit for CHOICE arrangement.

“(a) In general.—For purposes of section 38, in the case of an eligible
employer, the CHOICE arrangement credit determined under this section for any
taxable year is an amount, with respect to each employee enrolled during the
credit period in a CHOICE arrangement maintained by the employer, equal to—

“(1) $100 multiplied by the number of months for which the employee is so
enrolled during the first year in the credit period, and

“(2) one-half of the dollar amount in effect under paragraph (1) for the
taxable year, multiplied by the number of months for which the employee is so
enrolled during the second year of the credit period.

“(b) Arrangement must constitute minimum essential coverage.—An employee shall
not be taken into account under subsection (a) unless such employee’s
eligibility for the CHOICE arrangement (determined without regard to the
employee being enrolled) would cause the employee to be treated under section
36B(c)(2) as being eligible for minimum essential coverage consisting of an
eligible employer-sponsored plan (as defined in section 5000A(f)(2)).

“(c) Definitions.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) CHOICE ARRANGEMENT.—The term ‘CHOICE arrangement’ means a custom health
option and individual care expense arrangement (as defined in section
9815(b)(2)(B)).

“(2) CREDIT PERIOD.—The credit period with respect to an eligible employer is
the first 2 one-year periods beginning with the month during which the
employer first establishes a CHOICE arrangement on behalf of employees of the
employer.

“(3) ELIGIBLE EMPLOYER.—The term ‘eligible employer’ means, with respect to
any taxable year beginning in a calendar year, an employer who is not an
applicable large employer for the calendar year under section 4980H.

“(d) Inflation adjustment.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any taxable year beginning in a calendar year
after 2026, the dollar amount in subsection (a) shall be increased by an
amount equal to—

“(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by

“(B) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the
calendar year in which such taxable year begins by substituting ‘calendar year
2025’ for ‘calendar year 2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.

“(2) ROUNDING.—If any amount after adjustment under paragraph (1) is not a
multiple of $10, such amount shall be rounded to the next lower multiple of
$10.”.

(b) Credit made part of general business credit.—[Section
38(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=38) is
amended by striking “plus” at the end of paragraph (40), by striking the
period at the end of paragraph (41) and inserting “, plus”, and by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:

“(42) the CHOICE arrangement credit determined under section 45BB(a).”.

(c) Credit allowed against alternative minimum tax.—[Section
38(c)(4)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=38)
is amended—

(1) by redesignating clauses (x), (xi), and (xii) as clauses (xi), (xii), and
(xiii), respectively, and

(2) by inserting after clause (ix) the following new clause:

“(x) the credit determined under section 45BB,”.

(d) Clerical amendment.—The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of
subchapter A of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:

  
“Sec. 45BB. Employer credit for CHOICE arrangement.”.

(e) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110204. Individuals entitled to part A of Medicare by reason of age
allowed to contribute to health savings accounts.

(a) In general.—[Section
223(c)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223)
is amended by striking “and” at the end of clause (ii), by striking the period
at the end of clause (iii) and inserting “, and”, and by adding at the end the
following new clause:

“(iv) entitlement to hospital insurance benefits under part A of title XVIII
of the Social Security Act by reason of section 226(a) of such Act.”.

(b) Treatment of health insurance purchased from account.—[Section
223(d)(2)(C)(iv)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223)
is amended by inserting “and who is not an eligible individual” after “who has
attained the age specified in section 1811 of the Social Security Act”.

(c) Coordination with penalty on distributions not used for qualified medical
expenses.—[Section
223(f)(4)(C)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223)
is amended by striking “Subparagraph (A)” and inserting “Except in the case of
an eligible individual, subparagraph (A)”

(d) Conforming amendment.—[Section
223(b)(7)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223)
is amended by inserting “(other than an entitlement to benefits described in
subsection (c)(1)(B)(iv))” after “Social Security Act”.

(e) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to months
beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110205. Treatment of direct primary care service arrangements.

(a) In general.—[Section
223(c)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223)
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(E) TREATMENT OF DIRECT PRIMARY CARE SERVICE ARRANGEMENTS.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—A direct primary care service arrangement shall not be
treated as a health plan for purposes of subparagraph (A)(ii).

“(ii) DIRECT PRIMARY CARE SERVICE ARRANGEMENT.—For purposes of this
subparagraph—

“(I) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘direct primary care service arrangement’ means,
with respect to any individual, an arrangement under which such individual is
provided medical care (as defined in section 213(d)) consisting solely of
primary care services provided by primary care practitioners (as defined in
section 1833(x)(2)(A) of the Social Security Act, determined without regard to
clause (ii) thereof), if the sole compensation for such care is a fixed
periodic fee.

“(II) LIMITATION.—With respect to any individual for any month, such term
shall not include any arrangement if the aggregate fees for all direct primary
care service arrangements (determined without regard to this subclause) with
respect to such individual for such month exceed $150 (twice such dollar
amount in the case of an individual with any direct primary care service
arrangement (as so determined) that covers more than one individual).

“(iii) CERTAIN SERVICES SPECIFICALLY EXCLUDED FROM TREATMENT AS PRIMARY CARE
SERVICES.—For purposes of this subparagraph, the term ‘primary care services’
shall not include—

“(I) procedures that require the use of general anesthesia,

“(II) prescription drugs (other than vaccines), and

“(III) laboratory services not typically administered in an ambulatory primary
care setting.

The Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, shall issue regulations or other guidance regarding the application
of this clause.”.

(b) Direct primary care service arrangement fees treated as medical
expenses.—[Section
223(d)(2)(C)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223)
is amended by striking “or” at the end of clause (iii), by striking the period
at the end of clause (iv) and inserting “, or”, and by adding at the end the
following new clause:

“(v) any direct primary care service arrangement.”.

(c) Inflation adjustment.—[Section
223(g)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223)
is amended—

(1) by inserting “, (c)(1)(E)(ii)(II),” after “(b)(2)” each place it appears,
and

(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking “clause (ii)” in clause (i) and inserting
“clauses (ii) and (iii)” , by striking “and” at the end of clause (i), by
striking the period at the end of clause (ii) and inserting “, and”, and by
inserting after clause (ii) the following new clause:

“(iii) in the case of the dollar amount in subsection (c)(1)(E)(ii)(II) for
taxable years beginning in calendar years after 2026, ‘calendar year
2025’.”.”.

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to months
beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110206. Allowance of bronze and catastrophic plans in connection with
health savings accounts.

(a) In general.—[Section
223(c)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223)
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(H) BRONZE AND CATASTROPHIC PLANS TREATED AS HIGH DEDUCTIBLE HEALTH
PLANS.—The term ‘high deductible health plan’ shall include any plan—

“(i) available as individual coverage through an Exchange established under
section 1311 or 1321 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and

“(ii) described in subsection (d)(1)(A) or (e) of section 1302 of such Act.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to months
beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110207. On-site employee clinics.

(a) In general.—Section 223(c)(1), as amended by the preceding provisions of
this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(F) SPECIAL RULE FOR QUALIFIED ITEMS AND SERVICES.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of subparagraph (A)(ii), an individual shall not
be treated as covered under a health plan described in subclauses (I) and (II)
of such subparagraph merely because the individual is eligible to receive, or
receives, qualified items and services—

“(I) at a healthcare facility located at a facility owned or leased by the
employer of the individual (or of the individual’s spouse), or

“(II) at a healthcare facility operated primarily for the benefit of employees
of the employer of the individual (or of the individual’s spouse).

“(ii) QUALIFIED ITEMS AND SERVICES DEFINED.—For purposes of this subparagraph,
the term ‘qualified items and services’ means the following:

“(I) Physical examination.

“(II) Immunizations, including injections of antigens provided by employees.

“(III) Drugs or biologicals other than a prescribed drug (as such term is
defined in section 213(d)(3)).

“(IV) Treatment for injuries occurring in the course of employment.

“(V) Preventive care for chronic conditions (as defined in clause (iv)).

“(VI) Drug testing.

“(VII) Hearing or vision screenings and related services.

“(iii) AGGREGATION.—For purposes of clause (i), all persons treated as a
single employer under subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section 414 shall be
treated as a single employer.

“(iv) PREVENTIVE CARE FOR CHRONIC CONDITIONS.—For purposes of this
subparagraph, the term ‘preventive care for chronic conditions’ means any item
or service specified in the Appendix of Internal Revenue Service Notice
2019–45 which is prescribed to treat an individual diagnosed with the
associated chronic condition specified in such Appendix for the purpose of
preventing the exacerbation of such chronic condition or the development of a
secondary condition, including any amendment, addition, removal, or other
modification made by the Secretary (pursuant to the authority granted to the
Secretary under paragraph (2)(C)) to the items or services specified in such
Appendix subsequent to the date of publication of such Notice.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to months
in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110208. Certain amounts paid for physical activity, fitness, and exercise
treated as amounts paid for medical care.

(a) In general.—[Section
223(d)(2)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223)
is amended by adding at the end the following: “For purposes of this
subparagraph, amounts paid for qualified sports and fitness expenses shall be
treated as paid for medical care.”.

(b) Qualified sports and fitness expenses.—[Section
223(d)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223)
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(E) QUALIFIED SPORTS AND FITNESS EXPENSES.—For purposes of this paragraph—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified sports and fitness expenses’ means
amounts paid exclusively for the sole purpose of participating in a physical
activity including—

“(I) for membership at a fitness facility, or

“(II) for participation or instruction in physical exercise or physical
activity.

“(ii) OVERALL DOLLAR LIMITATION.—

“(I) IN GENERAL.—The aggregate amount treated as qualified sports and fitness
expenses with respect to any taxpayer for any taxable year shall not exceed
$500 ($1,000 in the case of a joint return or a head of household (as defined
in section 2(b))).

“(II) MONTHLY LIMIT.—The amount taken into account under subparagraph (A) as
paid for participating in a physical activity during a month beginning during
the taxable year shall not exceed an amount equal to 1/12 of the amount in
effect with respect to the taxpayer for the taxable year under subclause (I).

“(iii) FITNESS FACILITY.—For purposes of clause (i)(I), the term ‘fitness
facility’ means a facility—

“(I) which provides instruction in a program of physical exercise, offers
facilities for the preservation, maintenance, encouragement, or development of
physical fitness, or serves as the site of such a program of a State or local
government,

“(II) which is not a private club owned and operated by its members,

“(III) which does not offer golf, hunting, sailing, or riding facilities,

“(IV) the health or fitness component of which is not incidental to its
overall function and purpose, and

“(V) which is fully compliant with the State of jurisdiction and Federal anti-
discrimination laws.

“(iv) TREATMENT OF PERSONAL TRAINERS, EXERCISE VIDEOS, ETC.—The term
‘qualified sports and fitness expenses’ shall not include any amount paid for—

“(I) videos, books, or similar materials,

“(II) remote or virtual instruction in a physical exercise or physical
activity, unless such instruction is live, or

“(III) one-on-one personal training.

“(v) PROGRAMS WHICH INCLUDE COMPONENTS OTHER THAN PHYSICAL EXERCISE AND
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY.—Rules similar to the rules of section 213(d)(6) shall apply
in the case of any program that includes physical exercise or physical
activity and also other components. For purposes of the preceding sentence,
travel and accommodations shall be treated as a separate component.

“(vi) MEMBERSHIP, PARTICIPATION, AND INSTRUCTION MUST BE CONTINUING.—An amount
shall not be treated as paid for the purpose of participating in a physical
activity unless—

“(I) in the case of a membership at a fitness facility, such membership is for
more than 1 day, and

“(II) in the case of participation or instruction in physical exercise or
physical activity, the amount paid constitutes payment for more than 1
occasion of such participation or instruction.

“(vii) COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT.—In the case of any taxable year beginning in
a calendar year after 2026, each dollar amount in clause (ii)(I) shall be
increased by an amount equal to—

“(I) such dollar amount, multiplied by

“(II) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the
calendar year in which such taxable year begins by substituting ‘calendar year
2025’ for ‘calendar year 2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.

If any increase under the preceding sentence is not a multiple of $50, such
increase shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $50.”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110209. Allow both spouses to make catch-up contributions to the same
health savings account.

(a) In general.—[Section
223(b)(5)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223)
is amended to read as follows:

“(5) SPECIAL RULE FOR MARRIED INDIVIDUALS WITH FAMILY COVERAGE.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of individuals who are married to each other, if
both spouses are eligible individuals and either spouse has family coverage
under a high deductible health plan as of the first day of any month—

“(i) the limitation under paragraph (1) shall be applied by not taking into
account any other high deductible health plan coverage of either spouse (and
if such spouses both have family coverage under separate high deductible
health plans, only one such coverage shall be taken into account),

“(ii) such limitation (after application of clause (i)) shall be reduced by
the aggregate amount paid to Archer MSAs of such spouses for the taxable year,
and

“(iii) such limitation (after application of clauses (i) and (ii)) shall be
divided equally between such spouses unless they agree on a different
division.

“(B) TREATMENT OF ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTION AMOUNTS.—If both spouses referred to
in subparagraph (A) have attained age 55 before the close of the taxable year,
the limitation referred to in subparagraph (A)(iii) which is subject to
division between the spouses shall include the additional contribution amounts
determined under paragraph (3) for both spouses. In any other case, any
additional contribution amount determined under paragraph (3) shall not be
taken into account under subparagraph (A)(iii) and shall not be subject to
division between the spouses.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110210. FSA AND HRA TERMINATIONS OR CONVERSIONS TO FUND HSAs.

(a) In general.—[Section
106(e)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=106)
is amended to read as follows:

“(2) QUALIFIED HSA DISTRIBUTION.—For purposes of this subsection—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified HSA distribution’ means, with respect to
any employee, a distribution from a health flexible spending arrangement or
health reimbursement arrangement of such employee contributed directly to a
health savings account of such employee if—

“(i) such distribution is made in connection with such employee establishing
coverage under a high deductible health plan (as defined in section 223(c)(2))
if during the 4-year period preceding the date the employee so establishes
coverage the employee was not covered under such a high deductible health
plan, and

“(ii) such arrangement is described in section 223(c)(1)(B)(v) with respect to
any portion of the plan year remaining after such distribution is made, if
such employee remains enrolled in such arrangement.

“(B) DOLLAR LIMITATION.—The aggregate amount of distributions from health
flexible spending arrangements and health reimbursement arrangements of any
employee which may be treated as qualified HSA distributions in connection
with an establishment of coverage described in subparagraph (A)(i) shall not
exceed the dollar amount in effect under section 125(i)(1) (twice such amount
in the case of coverage which is described in section 223(b)(2)(B)).”.

(b) Partial reduction of limitation on deductible HSA contributions.—[Section
223(b)(4)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223)
is amended by striking “and” at the end of subparagraph (B), by striking the
period at the end of subparagraph (C) and inserting “, and”, and by inserting
after subparagraph (C) the following new subparagraph:

“(D) so much of any qualified HSA distribution (as defined in section
106(e)(2)) made to a health savings account of such individual during the
taxable year as does not exceed the aggregate increases in the balance of the
arrangement from which such distribution is made which occur during the
portion of the plan year which precedes such distribution (other than any
balance carried over to such plan year and determined without regard to any
decrease in such balance during such portion of the plan year).”.

(c) Conversion to hsa-compatible arrangement for remainder of plan
year.—Section 223(c)(1)(B), as amended by this preceding provisions of this
Act, is amended by striking “and” at the end of clause (iii), by striking the
period at the end of clause (iv) and inserting “, and”, and by adding at the
end the following new clause:

“(v) coverage under a health flexible spending arrangement or health
reimbursement arrangement for the portion of the plan year after a qualified
HSA distribution (as defined in section 106(e)(2) determined without regard to
subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof) is made, if the terms of such arrangement which
apply for such portion of the plan year are such that, if such terms applied
for the entire plan year, then such arrangement would not be taken into
account under subparagraph (A)(ii) of this paragraph for such plan year.”.

(d) Inclusion of qualified HSA distributions on w–2.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 6051(a), as amended by the preceding provisions of
this Act, is amended by striking “and” at the end of paragraph (19), by
striking the period at the end of paragraph (20) and inserting “, and”, and by
inserting after paragraph (20) the following new paragraph:

“(21) the amount of any qualified HSA distribution (as defined in section
106(e)(2)) with respect to such employee.”.

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—[Section
6051(a)(12)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6051)
is amended by inserting “(other than any qualified HSA distribution, as
defined in section 106(e)(2))” before the comma at the end.

(e) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
distributions made after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110211. Special rule for certain medical expenses incurred before
establishment of health savings account.

(a) In general.—Section 223(d)(2), as amended by the preceding provisions of
this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(F) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN MEDICAL EXPENSES INCURRED BEFORE ESTABLISHMENT OF
ACCOUNT.—If a health savings account is established during the 60-day period
beginning on the date that coverage of the account beneficiary under a high
deductible health plan begins, then, solely for purposes of determining
whether an amount paid is used for a qualified medical expense, such account
shall be treated as having been established on the date that such coverage
begins.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply with
respect to coverage beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110212. Contributions permitted if spouse has health flexible spending
arrangement.

(a) Contributions permitted if spouse has a health flexible spending
arrangement.—Section 223(c)(1)(B), as amended by this preceding provisions of
this Act, is amended by striking “and” at the end of clause (iv), by striking
the period at the end of clause (v) and inserting “, and”, and by adding at
the end the following new clause:

“(vi) coverage under a health flexible spending arrangement of the spouse of
the individual for any plan year of such arrangement if the aggregate
reimbursements under such arrangement for such year do not exceed the
aggregate expenses which would be eligible for reimbursement under such
arrangement if such expenses were determined without regard to any expenses
paid or incurred with respect to such individual.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to plan
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 110213.  Increase in health savings account contribution limitation for
certain individuals.

(a) Increase.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
223(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=223) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(9) INCREASE IN LIMITATION FOR CERTAIN TAXPAYERS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The applicable limitation under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of
paragraph (2) shall be increased by $4,300 and $8,550, respectively.

“(B) LIMITATION BASED ON MODIFIED ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—The amount of the
increase under subparagraph (A) (determined without regard to this
subparagraph) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the amount which bears
the same ratio to the amount of such increase (as so determined) as—

“(i) the excess (if any) of—

“(I) the taxpayer’s adjusted gross income for such taxable year, over

“(II) $75,000 ($150,000 in the case of a joint return, if the eligible
individual has family coverage), bears to

“(ii) $25,000 ($50,000 in the case of a joint return, if the eligible
individual has family coverage).

For purposes of the preceding sentence, adjusted gross income shall be
determined in the same manner as under section 219(g)(3)(A), except determined
without regard to any deduction allowed under this section.”.

(2) ONLY TO APPLY TO EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS.—[Section
106(d)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=106)
is amended by inserting “and section 223(b)(9)” after “determined without
regard to this subsection”.

(b) Inflation adjustment.—Section 223(g), as amended by the preceding
provisions of this Act, is amended—

(1) by inserting “, (b)(9)(A), (b)(9)(B)(i)(II),” before “and (c)(2)(A)” each
place it appears,

(2) by striking “clauses (ii) and (ii)” in paragraph (1)(B)(i) and inserting
“clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv)”,

(3) by striking “and” at the end of paragraph (1)(B)(ii),

(4) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (1)(B)(iii) and inserting
“, and”, and

(5) by inserting after paragraph (1)(B)(iii) the following new clause:

“(iv) in the case of the dollar amounts in subsections (b)(9)(A) and
(b)(9)(B)(i)(II), ‘calendar year 2025’.”.

(c) Effective date.—

(1) SUBSECTION (a).—The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025.

(2) SUBSECTION (b).—The amendments made by subsection (b) shall apply to
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2026.

SEC. 110214.  Regulations.

The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Health and Human Services
may each prescribe such rules and other guidance as may be necessary or
appropriate to carry out the amendments made by this part.

subtitle B—Make Rural America and Main Street Grow Again

PART 1—Extension of Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Reforms for Rural America and Main
Street

SEC. 111001. Extension of special depreciation allowance for certain property.

(a) In general.—[Section
168(k)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=168) is
amended—

(1) in paragraph (2)—

(A) by striking “January 1, 2027” each place it appears and inserting “January
1, 2030”, and

(B) in subparagraph (B)—

(i) in clause (i)(II), by striking “January 1, 2028” and inserting “January 1,
2031”, and

(ii) in the heading of clause (ii), by striking “pre-January 1, 2027 basis”
and inserting “pre-January 1, 2030 basis”,

(2) in paragraph (5)(A), by striking “January 1, 2027” and inserting “January
1, 2030”, and

(3) in paragraph (6)—

(A) in subparagraph (A)—

(i) by inserting “in the case of property acquired by the taxpayer before
January 20, 2025,” after “Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph,”,
and

(ii) by striking “and” at the end of clause (iv), by striking the period at
the end of clause (v) and inserting “, and”, and by adding at the end the
following new clause:

“(vi) in the case of property placed in service after December 31, 2026, 0
percent.”,

(B) in subparagraph (B)—

(i) by striking “In the case of property described” and inserting “In the case
of property acquired by the taxpayer before January 20, 2025 and described”,
and

(ii) by striking “and” at the end of clause (iv), by striking the period at
the end of clause (v) and inserting “, and”, and by adding at the end the
following new clause:

“(vi) in the case of property placed in service after December 31, 2027, 0
percent.”,

(C) in subparagraph (C), by inserting “and” at the end of clause (iii), by
striking clauses (iv) and (v), and by adding at the end the following new
clause:

“(iv) in the case of a plant which is planted or grafted after January 19,
2025, and before January 1, 2030, 100 percent.”, and

(D) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(D) RULE FOR PROPERTY ACQUIRED AFTER JANUARY 19, 2025.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of property acquired by the taxpayer after
January 19, 2025 and placed in service after such date and before January 1,
2030 (January 1, 2031, in the case of property described in subparagraph (B)
or (C) of paragraph (2)), the term ‘applicable percentage’ means 100 percent.

“(ii) ACQUISITION DATE DETERMINATION.—For purposes of clause (i), property
shall not be treated as acquired after the date on which a written binding
contract is entered into for such acquisition.”.

(b) Conforming amendment.—[Section
460(c)(6)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=460)
is amended by striking “which” and all that follows through the period and
inserting “which has a recovery period of 7 years or less.”.

(c) Effective dates.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided by paragraph (2), the amendments made by
this section shall apply to property acquired after January 19, 2025 and
placed in service after such date.

(2) SPECIFIED PLANTS.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
specified plants planted or grafted after January 19, 2025.

SEC. 111002.  Deduction of domestic research and experimental expenditures.

(a) Suspension of amortization for domestic research and experimental
expenditures.—[Section
174](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=174) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(e) Suspension of application to domestic research and experimental
expenditures.—In the case of any domestic research or experimental
expenditures (as defined in section 174A(b)), this section shall not apply to
such expenditures paid or incurred in taxable years beginning after December
31, 2024, and before January 1, 2030.”.

(b) Reinstatement of expensing for domestic research and experimental
expenditures.—Part VI of subchapter B of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting after
section 174 the following new section:

“SEC. 174A.  Temporary rules for domestic research and experimental
expenditures.

“(a) Treatment as expenses.—Notwithstanding section 263, there shall be
allowed as a deduction any domestic research or experimental expenditures
which are paid or incurred by the taxpayer during the taxable year.

“(b) Domestic research or experimental expenditures.—For purposes of this
section, the term ‘domestic research or experimental expenditures’ means
research or experimental expenditures paid or incurred by the taxpayer in
connection with the taxpayer’s trade or business other than such expenditures
which are attributable to foreign research (within the meaning of section
41(d)(4)(F)).

“(c) Amortization of certain domestic research and experimental expenditures.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—At the election of the taxpayer, made in accordance with
regulations or other guidance provided by the Secretary, in the case of
domestic research or experimental expenditures which would (but for subsection
(a)) be chargeable to capital account but not chargeable to property of a
character which is subject to the allowance under section 167 (relating to
allowance for depreciation, etc.) or section 611 (relating to allowance for
depletion), subsection (a) shall not apply and the taxpayer shall—

“(A) charge such expenditures to capital account, and

“(B) be allowed an amortization deduction of such expenditures ratably over
such period of not less than 60 months as may be selected by the taxpayer
(beginning with the midpoint of the taxable year in which such expenditures
are paid or incurred).

“(2) TIME FOR AND SCOPE OF ELECTION.—The election provided by paragraph (1)
may be made for any taxable year, but only if made not later than the time
prescribed by law for filing the return for such taxable year (including
extensions thereof). The method so elected, and the period selected by the
taxpayer, shall be adhered to in computing taxable income for the taxable year
for which the election is made and for all subsequent taxable years unless,
with the approval of the Secretary, a change to a different method (or to a
different period) is authorized with respect to part or all of such
expenditures. The election shall not apply to any expenditure paid or incurred
during any taxable year before the taxable year for which the taxpayer makes
the election.

“(d) Special rules.—

“(1) LAND AND OTHER PROPERTY.—This section shall not apply to any expenditure
for the acquisition or improvement of land, or for the acquisition or
improvement of property to be used in connection with the research or
experimentation and of a character which is subject to the allowance under
section 167 (relating to allowance for depreciation, etc.) or section 611
(relating to allowance for depletion); but for purposes of this section
allowances under section 167, and allowances under section 611, shall be
considered as expenditures.

“(2) EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES.—This section shall not apply to any expenditure
paid or incurred for the purpose of ascertaining the existence, location,
extent, or quality of any deposit of ore or other mineral (including oil and
gas).

“(3) SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT.—For purposes of this section, any amount paid or
incurred in connection with the development of any software shall be treated
as a research or experimental expenditure.

“(e) Termination.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—This section shall not apply to amounts paid or incurred in
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2029.

“(2) CHANGE IN METHOD OF ACCOUNTING.—In the case of a taxpayer’s first taxable
year beginning after December 31, 2029, paragraph (1) (and the corresponding
application of section 174) shall be treated as a change in method of
accounting for purposes of section 481 and—

“(A) such change shall be treated as initiated by the taxpayer,

“(B) such change shall be treated as made with the consent of the Secretary,
and

“(C) such change shall be applied only on a cut-off basis for any domestic
research or experimental expenditures paid or incurred in taxable years
beginning after December 31, 2029, and no adjustment under section 481(a)
shall be made.”.

(c) Treatment of foreign research or experimental expenditures upon
disposition.—[Section
174(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=174) is
amended by inserting “or reduction to amount realized” after “no deduction”.

(d) Coordination with certain other provisions.—

(1) RESEARCH CREDIT.—

(A) [Section
41(d)(1)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=41)
is amended by inserting “or domestic research or experimental expenditures
under section 174A” after “section 174”.

(B) [Section
280C(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=280C) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(4) DOMESTIC RESEARCH OR EXPERIMENTAL EXPENDITURES.—The domestic research or
experimental expenditures otherwise taken into account under section 174A
shall be reduced by the amount of the credit allowed under section 41(a).”.

(C) [Section
280C(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=280C) is
amended—

(i) in paragraph (1)(B)—

(I) by striking “a deduction” and inserting “an amortization deduction”, and

(II) by inserting “under section 174” after “basic research expenses”, and

(ii) in paragraph (2)(A)(i), by striking “paragraph (1)” and inserting
“paragraphs (1) and (4)”.

(2) AMT ADJUSTMENT.—[Section
56(b)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=56) is
amended—

(A) by striking “174(a)” each place it appears and inserting “174A(a)”, and

(B) by adding at the end of subparagraph (A) the following new flush sentence:

“In the case of research and experimental expenditures charged to capital
account and amortized under section 174 or 174A, such amounts shall be
amortized for purposes of this subsection as provided in clause (ii).”.

(3) OPTIONAL 10-YEAR WRITEOFF.—[Section
59(e)(2)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=59)
is amended by striking “section 174(a) (relating to research and experimental
expenditures)” and inserting “section 174A(a) (relating to temporary rules for
domestic research and experimental expenditures)”.

(4) QUALIFIED SMALL ISSUE BONDS.—[Section
144(a)(4)(C)(iv)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=144)
is amended by inserting “or 174A(a)” after “174(a)”.

(5) START-UP EXPENDITURES.—[Section
195(c)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=195)
is amended by striking “or 174” in the last sentence and inserting “174, or
174A”.

(6) CAPITAL EXPENDITURES.—

(A) [Section
263(a)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=263)
is amended by inserting “ or 174A” after “174”.

(B) [Section
263A(c)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=263A)
is amended by inserting “or 174A” after “174”.

(7) ACTIVE BUSINESS COMPUTER SOFTWARE ROYALTIES.—[Section
543(d)(4)(A)(i)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=543)
is amended by inserting “174A,” after “174,”.

(8) SOURCE RULES.—[Section
864(g)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=864)
is amended in the last sentence—

(A) by striking “treated as deferred expenses under subsection (b) of section
174” and inserting “allowed as an amortization deduction under section 174(a)
or section 174A(c),”, and

(B) by striking “such subsection” and inserting “such section (as the case may
be)”.

(9) BASIS ADJUSTMENT.—[Section
1016(a)(14)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1016)
is amended by striking “deductions as deferred expenses under section
174(b)(1) (relating to research and experimental expenditures)” and inserting
“deductions under section 174 or 174A(c)”.

(10) SMALL BUSINESS STOCK.—[Section
1202(e)(2)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1202)
is amended by striking “research and experimental expenditures under section
174” and inserting “specified research or experimental expenditures under
section 174 or domestic research or experimental expenditures under section
174A”.

(e) Clerical amendment.—The table of sections for part VI of subchapter B of
[chapter 1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting after the
item relating to section 174 the following new item:

  
“Sec. 174A. Temporary rules for domestic research and experimental
expenditures.”.

(f) Effective date and special rule.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the
amendments made by this section shall apply to amounts paid or incurred in
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024.

(2) TREATMENT OF FOREIGN RESEARCH OR EXPERIMENTAL EXPENDITURES UPON
DISPOSITION.—The amendment made by subsection (c) shall apply to property
disposed, retired, or abandoned after May 12, 2025.

(3) COORDINATION WITH RESEARCH CREDIT.—The amendments made by subparagraphs
(B) and (C) of subsection (d)(1) shall apply to taxable years beginning after
December 31, 2024.

(4) SPECIAL RULE FOR SHORT TAXABLE YEARS.—The Secretary of the Treasury may
prescribe such rules as are necessary or appropriate to provide for the
application of the amendments made by this section in the case of any taxable
year of less than 12 months that begins after December 31, 2024, and ends
before the date of the enactment of this Act.

(5) CHANGE IN METHOD OF ACCOUNTING.—The amendments made by this section shall
be treated as a change in method of accounting for purposes of [section
481](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=481) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and—

(A) such change shall be treated as initiated by the taxpayer,

(B) such change shall be treated as made with the consent of the Secretary,
and

(C) such change shall be applied only on a cut-off basis for any research or
experimental expenditures paid or incurred in taxable years beginning after
December 31, 2024, and no adjustments under section 481(a) shall be made.

(6) NO INFERENCE.—The amendments made by subparagraphs (B) and (C) of
subsection (d)(1) shall not be construed to create any inference with respect
to the proper application of [section
280C(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=280C) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with respect to taxable years beginning
before January 1, 2025.

SEC. 111003.  Modified calculation of adjusted taxable income for purposes of
business interest deduction.

(a) In general.—[Section
163(j)(8)(A)(v)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=163)
is amended by striking “beginning before January 1, 2022” and inserting
“beginning after December 31, 2024 and before January 1, 2030”.

(b) Floor plan financing applicable to certain trailers and campers.—[Section
163(j)(9)(C)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=163)
is amended by adding at the end the following new flush sentence:

“Such term shall also include any trailer or camper which is designed to
provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or seasonal use
and is designed to be towed by, or affixed to, a motor vehicle.”.

(c) Effective date and special rule.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2024.

(2) SPECIAL RULE FOR SHORT TAXABLE YEARS.—The Secretary of the Treasury may
prescribe such rules as are necessary or appropriate to provide for the
application of the amendments made by this section in the case of any taxable
year of less than 12 months that begins after December 31, 2024, and ends
before the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 111004.  Extension of deduction for foreign-derived intangible income and
global intangible low-taxed income.

(a) In general.—[Section
250(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=250) is
amended—

(1) by striking “37.5 percent” in paragraph (1)(A) and inserting “36.5
percent”,

(2) by striking “50 percent” in paragraph (1)(B) and inserting “49.2 percent”,
and

(3) by striking paragraph (3).

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 111005.  Extension of base erosion minimum tax amount.

(a) In general.—[Section
59A(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=59A) is
amended—

(1) by striking “10 percent” in paragraph (1) and inserting “10.1 percent”,
and

(2) by striking paragraph (2) and by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as
paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively.

(b) Conforming amendments.—

(1) [Section
59A(b)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=59A)
is amended by striking “Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3)” and
inserting “Except as provided in paragraph (2)”.

(2) Section 59A(b)(2), as redesignated by subsection (a)(2), is amended by
striking “the percentage otherwise in effect under paragraphs (1)(A) and
(2)(A) shall each be increased” and inserting “the percentages otherwise in
effect under paragraph (1)(A) shall be increased”.

(3) [Section
59A(e)(1)(C)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=59A)
is amended by striking “in the case of a taxpayer described in subsection
(b)(3)(B)” and inserting “in the case of a taxpayer described in subsection
(b)(2)(B)”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 111006.  Exception to denial of deduction for business meals.

(a) In general.—[Section
274(o)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=274) is
amended by striking “No deduction” and inserting “Except in the case of an
expense described in subsection (e)(8), no deduction”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to amounts
paid or incurred after December 31, 2025.

PART 2—Additional Tax Relief for Rural America and Main Street

SEC. 111101. Special depreciation allowance for qualified production property.

(a) In general.—[Section
168](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=168) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(n) Special allowance for qualified production property.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any qualified production property—

“(A) the depreciation deduction provided by section 167(a) for the taxable
year in which such property is placed in service shall include an allowance
equal to 100 percent of the adjusted basis of the qualified production
property, and

“(B) the adjusted basis of the qualified production property shall be reduced
by the amount of such deduction before computing the amount otherwise
allowable as a depreciation deduction under this chapter for such taxable year
and any subsequent taxable year.

“(2) QUALIFIED PRODUCTION PROPERTY.—For purposes of this subsection—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified production property’ means that portion
of any nonresidential real property—

“(i) to which this section applies,

“(ii) which is used by the taxpayer as an integral part of a qualified
production activity,

“(iii) which is placed in service in the United States or any possession of
the United States,

“(iv) the original use of which commences with the taxpayer,

“(v) the construction of which begins after January 19, 2025, and before
January 1, 2029,

“(vi) with respect to which the taxpayer has elected the application of this
subsection, and

“(vii) which is placed in service before January 1, 2033.

“(B) SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN PROPERTY NOT PREVIOUSLY USED IN QUALIFIED
PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of property acquired by the taxpayer during the
period described in subparagraph (A)(v), the requirements of clauses (iv) and
(v) of subparagraph (A) shall be treated as satisfied if such property was not
used in a qualified production activity (determined without regard to the
second sentence of subparagraph (D)) by any person at any time during the
period beginning on January 1, 2021, and ending on May 12, 2025.

“(ii) WRITTEN BINDING CONTRACTS.—For purposes of determining under clause (i)—

“(I) whether such property is acquired before the period described in
subparagraph (A)(v), such property shall be treated as acquired not later than
the date on which the taxpayer enters into a written binding contract for such
acquisition, and

“(II) whether such property is acquired after such period, such property shall
be treated as acquired not earlier than such date.

“(C) EXCLUSION OF OFFICE SPACE, ETC.—The term ‘qualified production property’
shall not include that portion of any nonresidential real property which is
used for offices, administrative services, lodging, parking, sales activities,
research activities, software engineering activities, or other functions
unrelated to manufacturing, production, or refining of tangible personal
property.

“(D) QUALIFIED PRODUCTION ACTIVITY.—The term ‘qualified production activity’
means the manufacturing, production, or refining of a qualified product. The
activities of any taxpayer do not constitute manufacturing, production, or
refining of a qualified product unless the activities of such taxpayer result
in a substantial transformation of the property comprising the product.

“(E) PRODUCTION.—The term ‘production’ shall not include activities other than
agricultural production and chemical production.

“(F) QUALIFIED PRODUCT.—The term ‘qualified product’ means any tangible
personal property.

“(G) SYNDICATION.—For purposes of subparagraph (A)(iv), rules similar to the
rules of subsection (k)(2)(E)(iii) shall apply.

“(3) DEDUCTION ALLOWED IN COMPUTING MINIMUM TAX.—For purposes of determining
alternative minimum taxable income under section 55, the deduction under
section 167 for qualified production property shall be determined under this
section without regard to any adjustment under section 56.

“(4) COORDINATION WITH CERTAIN OTHER PROVISIONS.—

“(A) OTHER SPECIAL DEPRECIATION ALLOWANCES.—The term ‘qualified production
property’ shall not include any property to which subsection (k), (l), or (m)
applies. For purposes of subsections (k)(7), (l)(3)(D), and (m)(2)(B)(iii),
qualified production property to which this subsection applies shall be
treated as a separate class of property.

“(B) ALTERNATIVE DEPRECIATION PROPERTY.—The term ‘qualified production
property’ shall not include any property to which the alternative depreciation
system under subsection (g) applies. For purposes of subsection (g)(7)(A),
qualified production property to which this subsection applies shall be
treated as separate nonresidential real property.

“(5) RECAPTURE.—If, at any time during the 10-year period beginning on the
date that any qualified production property is placed in service by the
taxpayer, such property ceases to be used as described in paragraph (2)(A)(ii)
and is used by the taxpayer in a productive use not described in paragraph
(2)(A)(ii)—

“(A) section 1245 shall be applied—

“(i) by treating such property as having been disposed of by the taxpayer as
of the first time such property is so used in a productive use not described
in paragraph (2)(A)(ii), and

“(ii) by treating the amount described in subparagraph (B) of section
1245(a)(1) with respect to such disposition as being not less than the amount
described in subparagraph (A) of such section, and

“(B) the basis of the taxpayer in such property, and the taxpayer’s allowance
for depreciation with respect to such property, shall be appropriately
adjusted to take into account amounts recognized by reason of subparagraph
(A).

“(6) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall issue such regulations or other guidance
as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this
subsection, including regulations or other guidance—

“(A) regarding what constitutes a substantial transformation of property, and

“(B) providing for the application of paragraph (5) with respect to a change
in use described in such paragraph by a transferee following a fully or
partially tax free transfer of qualified production property.”.

(b) Treatment of qualified production property as section 1245
property.—[Section
1245(a)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1245)
is amended by striking “or” at the end of subparagraph (E), by striking the
period at the end of subparagraph (F) and inserting “, or”, and by adding at
the end the following new subparagraph:

“(G) any qualified production property (as defined in section 168(n)(2)).”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
property placed in service after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 111102. Renewal and enhancement of opportunity zones.

(a) Modification of low-income community definition.—[Section
1400Z–1(c)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1400Z)
is amended—

(1) by striking “communities.—The term” and inserting the following:
“communities.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term”, and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

“(B) MODIFICATIONS.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), section 45D(e)(1) shall
be applied in subparagraph (B) thereof, by substituting ‘70 percent’ for ‘80
percent’ each place it appears.

“(C) CERTAIN CENSUS TRACTS DISALLOWED.—The term ‘low-income community’ shall
not include any population census tract if—

“(i) in the case of a tract not located within a metropolitan area, the median
family income for such tract is at least 125 percent of statewide median
family income, or

“(ii) in the case of a tract located within a metropolitan area, the median
family income for such tract is at least 125 percent of the metropolitan area
median family income.”.

(b) New round of qualified opportunity zone designations.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
1400Z–1](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1400Z)
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(g) New round of qualified opportunity zone designations.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to designations under subsection (b), and under
rules similar to the rules of such subsection, the Secretary shall designate
tracts nominated by the chief executive officers of States for purposes of
this section.

“(2) NUMBER OF DESIGNATIONS; PROPORTION OF RURAL AREAS DESIGNATED.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Of the low-income communities within a State, the Secretary
may designate under this subsection not more than 25 percent as qualified
opportunity zones, of which at least the lesser of the following shall be
qualified opportunity zones which are comprised entirely of a rural area:

“(i) The applicable percentage of the total number of qualified opportunity
zone designations which may be made within the State under this subsection.

“(ii) All low-income communities within the State which are comprised entirely
of a rural area.

“(B) APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE.—For purposes of this paragraph, the applicable
percentage shall be, for any calendar year during which a designation is made,
the greater of—

“(i) 33 percent, or

“(ii) the percentage of the United States population living within a rural
area for the preceding calendar year.

“(3) RURAL AREA.—Whether a low-income community is comprised entirely of a
rural area shall be determined by the Secretary in consultation with the
Secretary of Agriculture. For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘rural
area’ has the meaning given such term by section 343(a)(13)(A) of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act.

“(4) PERIOD FOR WHICH DESIGNATION IS IN EFFECT.—A designation as a qualified
opportunity zone under this subsection shall remain in effect for the period
beginning on January 1, 2027, and ending on December 31, 2033.

“(5) CONTIGUOUS TRACTS NOT ELIGIBLE.—Subsection (e) shall not apply to
designations made under this subsection.”.

(2) ELECTION WITH RESPECT TO NEW ROUND OF ZONES.—[Section
1400Z–2(a)(2)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1400Z)
is amended by striking “December 31, 2026” and inserting “December 31, 2033”.

(3) YEAR OF INCLUSION.—[Section
1400Z–2(b)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1400Z)
is amended to read as follows:

“(B) (i) December 31, 2026, in the case of an amount invested before January
1, 2027, and

“(ii) December 31, 2033, in the case of an amount invested after December 31,
2026, and before January 1, 2034.”.

(4) WINDING DOWN INITIAL ZONE DESIGNATIONS.—[Section
1400Z–1(f)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1400Z)
is amended—

(A) by striking “and ending” and all that follows and inserting the following:
“and ending on December 31, 2026.”, and

(B) by striking “A designation” and inserting “Except as provided in
subsection (g)(4), a designation”.

(c) Modification of opportunity zone investment incentives.—

(1) CONSOLIDATED BASIS INCREASES; RURAL ZONE BASIS INCREASE.—[Section
1400Z–2(b)(2)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1400Z)
is amended by adding at the end the following new clauses:

“(v) CONSOLIDATED BASIS INCREASE FOR INVESTMENTS AFTER 2026.—In the case of
investments made after December 31, 2026—

“(I) clauses (iii) and (iv) shall not apply, and

“(II) for any such investment held by the taxpayer for at least 5 years, the
basis of such adjustment shall be increased by an amount equal to 10 percent
of the amount of gain deferred by reason of subsection (a)(1)(A).

“(vi) SPECIAL RULE FOR RURAL OPPORTUNITY FUNDS.—Clause (v) shall be applied by
substituting ‘30 percent’ for ‘10 percent’ in the case of an investment in a
qualified rural opportunity fund.

“(vii) QUALIFIED RURAL OPPORTUNITY FUND.—For purposes of clause (vi), a
‘qualified rural opportunity fund’ means a qualified opportunity fund that
holds at least 90 percent of its assets in qualified opportunity zone property
which—

“(I) is qualified opportunity zone business property substantially all of the
use of which, during substantially all of the fund’s holding period for such
property, was in a qualified opportunity zone comprised entirely of a rural
area, or

“(II) is qualified opportunity zone stock, or a qualified opportunity zone
partnership interest, in a qualified opportunity zone business in which
substantially all of the tangible property owned or leased is qualified
opportunity zone business property described in subsection (d)(3)(A)(i) and
substantially all the use of which is in a qualified opportunity zone
comprised entirely of a rural area.

For purposes of the preceding sentence, property held in the fund shall be
measured under rules similar to the rules of subsection (d)(1).”.

(2) LIMITED TREATMENT OF ORDINARY INCOME.—[Section
1400Z–2(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1400Z)
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR ORDINARY INCOME.—In the case of any ordinary income of
the taxpayer for the taxable year—

“(A) the taxpayer may elect the application of paragraph (1) with respect to
so much of ordinary income as does not exceed $10,000 (reduced by the amount
of any income with respect to which an election pursuant to this paragraph has
previously been made), and

“(B) subsection (b)(2)(B) shall not apply to the investment with respect to
such election.”.

(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR IMPROVEMENT OF EXISTING STRUCTURES IN RURAL AREAS,
INCLUDING FOR DATA CENTERS.—[Section
1400Z–2(d)(2)(D)(ii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1400Z)
is amended by inserting “(50 percent of such adjusted basis in the case of
property in a qualified opportunity zone comprised entirely of a rural area)”
after “the adjusted basis of such property”.

(d) Information reporting on qualified opportunity funds and qualified rural
opportunity funds.—

(1) FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR FUNDS AND INVESTORS.—Subpart A of part III of
subchapter A of [chapter
61](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter61-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting after
section 6039J the following new sections:

“SEC. 6039K.  Returns with respect to qualified opportunity funds and
qualified rural opportunity funds.

“(a) In general.—Every qualified opportunity fund shall file an annual return
(at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may prescribe) containing
the information described in subsection (b).

“(b) Information from qualified opportunity funds.—The information described
in this subsection is—

“(1) the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the qualified
opportunity fund,

“(2) whether the qualified opportunity fund is organized as a corporation or a
partnership,

“(3) the value of the total assets held by the qualified opportunity fund as
of each date described in section 1400Z–2(d)(1),

“(4) the value of all qualified opportunity zone property held by the
qualified opportunity fund on each such date,

“(5) with respect to each investment held by the qualified opportunity fund in
qualified opportunity zone stock or a qualified opportunity zone partnership
interest—

“(A) the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the corporation
in which such stock is held or the partnership in which such interest is held,
as the case may be,

“(B) each North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code that
applies to the trades or businesses conducted by such corporation or
partnership,

“(C) the population census tracts in which the qualified opportunity zone
business property of such corporation or partnership is located,

“(D) the amount of the investment in such stock or partnership interest as of
each date described in section 1400Z–2(d)(1),

“(E) the value of tangible property held by such corporation or partnership on
each such date which is owned by such corporation or partnership,

“(F) the value of tangible property held by such corporation or partnership on
each such date which is leased by such corporation or partnership,

“(G) the approximate number of residential units (if any) for any real
property held by such corporation or partnership, and

“(H) the approximate average monthly number of full-time equivalent employees
of such corporation or partnership for the year (within numerical ranges
identified by the Secretary) or such other indication of the employment impact
of such corporation or partnership as determined appropriate by the Secretary,

“(6) with respect to the items of qualified opportunity zone business property
held by the qualified opportunity fund—

“(A) the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code that
applies to the trades or businesses in which such property is held,

“(B) the population census tract in which the property is located,

“(C) whether the property is owned or leased,

“(D) the aggregate value of the items of qualified opportunity zone property
held by the qualified opportunity fund as of each date described in section
1400Z–2(d)(1), and

“(E) in the case of real property, number of residential units (if any),

“(7) the approximate average monthly number of full-time equivalent employees
for the year of the trades or businesses of the qualified opportunity fund in
which qualified opportunity zone business property is held (within numerical
ranges identified by the Secretary) or such other indication of the employment
impact of such trades or businesses as determined appropriate by the
Secretary,

“(8) with respect to each person who disposed of an investment in the
qualified opportunity fund during the year—

“(A) the name and taxpayer identification number of such person,

“(B) the date or dates on which the investment disposed was acquired, and

“(C) the date or dates on which any such investment was disposed and the
amount of the investment disposed, and

“(9) such other information as the Secretary may require.

“(c) Statement required to be furnished to investors.—Every person required to
make a return under subsection (a) shall furnish to each person whose name is
required to be set forth in such return by reason of subsection (b)(8) a
written statement showing—

“(1) the name, address and phone number of the information contact of the
person required to make such return, and

“(2) the information required to be shown on such return by reason of
subsection (b)(8) with respect to the person whose name is required to be so
set forth.

“(d) Definitions.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Any term used in this section which is also used in
subchapter Z of chapter 1 shall have the meaning given such term under such
subchapter.

“(2) FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT EMPLOYEES.—The term ‘full-time equivalent employees’
means, with respect to any month, the sum of—

“(A) the number of full-time employees (as defined in section 4980H(c)(4)) for
the month, plus

“(B) the number of employees determined (under rules similar to the rules of
section 4980H(c)(2)(E)) by dividing the aggregate number of hours of service
of employees who are not full-time employees for the month by 120.

“(e) Application to qualified rural opportunity funds.—Every qualified rural
opportunity fund (as defined in section 1400Z–2(b)(2)(B)(vii)) shall file the
annual return required under subsection (a), and the statements required under
subsection (c), applied—

“(1) by substituting ‘qualified rural opportunity’ for ‘qualified opportunity’
each place it appears,

“(2) by substituting ‘section 1400Z–2(b)(2)(B)(vii)’ for ‘section
1400Z–2(d)(1)’ each place it appears, and

“(3) by treating any reference (after the application of paragraph (1)) to
qualified rural opportunity zone stock, a qualified rural opportunity zone
partnership interest, a qualified rural opportunity zone business, or
qualified opportunity zone business property as stock, an interest, a
business, or property, respectively, described in subclause (I) or (II), as
the case may be, of section 1400Z–2(b)(2)(B)(vii).

“SEC. 6039L.  Information required from qualified opportunity zone businesses
and qualified rural opportunity zone businesses.

“(a) In general.—Every applicable qualified opportunity zone business shall
furnish to the qualified opportunity fund described in subsection (b) a
written statement in such manner and setting forth such information as the
Secretary may by regulations prescribe for purposes of enabling such qualified
opportunity fund to meet the requirements of section 6039K(b)(5).

“(b) Applicable qualified opportunity zone business.—For purposes of
subsection (a), the term ‘applicable qualified opportunity zone business’
means any qualified opportunity zone business—

“(1) which is a trade or business of a qualified opportunity fund,

“(2) in which a qualified opportunity fund holds qualified opportunity zone
stock, or

“(3) in which a qualified opportunity fund holds a qualified opportunity zone
partnership interest.

“(c) Other terms.—Any term used in this section which is also used in
subchapter Z of chapter 1 shall have the meaning given such term under such
subchapter.

“(d) Application to qualified rural opportunity businesses.—Every applicable
qualified rural opportunity zone business (as defined in subsection (b)
determined after application of the substitutions described in this sentence)
shall furnish the written statement required under subsection (a), applied—

“(1) by substituting ‘qualified rural opportunity’ for ‘qualified opportunity’
each place it appears, and

“(2) by treating any reference (after the application of paragraph (1)) to
qualified rural opportunity zone stock, a qualified rural opportunity zone
partnership interest, or a qualified rural opportunity zone business as stock,
an interest, or a business, respectively, described in subclause (I) or (II),
as the case may be, of section 1400Z–2(b)(2)(B)(vii).”.

(2) PENALTIES.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Part II of subchapter B of [chapter
68](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter68-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting after
section 6725 the following new section:

“SEC. 6726.  Failure to comply with information reporting requirements
relating to qualified opportunity funds and qualified rural opportunity funds.

“(a) In general.—In the case of any person required to file a return under
section 6039K fails to file a complete and correct return under such section
in the time and in the manner prescribed therefor, such person shall pay a
penalty of $500 for each day during which such failure continues.

“(b) Limitation.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The maximum penalty under this section on failures with
respect to any 1 return shall not exceed $10,000.

“(2) LARGE QUALIFIED OPPORTUNITY FUNDS.—In the case of any failure described
in subsection (a) with respect to a fund the gross assets of which (determined
on the last day of the taxable year) are in excess of $10,000,000, paragraph
(1) shall be applied by substituting ‘$50,000’ for ‘$10,000’.

“(c) Penalty in cases of intentional disregard.—If a failure described in
subsection (a) is due to intentional disregard, then—

“(1) subsection (a) shall be applied by substituting ‘$2,500’ for ‘$500’,

“(2) subsection (b)(1) shall be applied by substituting ‘$50,000’ for
‘$10,000’, and

“(3) subsection (b)(2) shall be applied by substituting ‘$250,000’ for
‘$50,000’.

“(d) Inflation adjustment.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any failure relating to a return required to
be filed in a calendar year beginning after 2025, each of the dollar amounts
in subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall be increased by an amount equal to such
dollar amount multiplied by the cost-of-living adjustment determined under
section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year determined by substituting ‘calendar
year 2024’ for ‘calendar year 2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.

“(2) ROUNDING.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If the $500 dollar amount in subsection (a) and (c)(1) or the
$2,500 amount in subsection (c)(1), after being increased under paragraph (1),
is not a multiple of $10, such dollar amount shall be rounded to the next
lowest multiple of $10.

“(B) ASSET THRESHOLD.—If the $10,000,000 dollar amount in subsection (b)(2),
after being increased under paragraph (1), is not a multiple of $10,000, such
dollar amount shall be rounded to the next lowest multiple of $10,000.

“(C) OTHER DOLLAR AMOUNTS.—If any dollar amount in subsection (b) or (c)
(other than any amount to which subparagraph (A) or (B) applies), after being
increased under paragraph (1), is not a multiple of $1,000, such dollar amount
shall be rounded to the next lowest multiple of $1,000.”.

(B) INFORMATION REQUIRED TO BE SENT TO OTHER TAXPAYERS.—Section 6724(d)(2), as
amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended—

(i) by striking “or” at the end of subparagraph (LL),

(ii) by striking the period at the end of the subparagraph (MM) and inserting
a comma, and

(iii) by inserting after subparagraph (MM) the following new subparagraphs:

“(NN) section 6039K(c) (relating to disposition of qualified opportunity fund
investments), or

“(OO) section 6039L (relating to information required from certain qualified
opportunity zone businesses and qualified rural opportunity zone
businesses).”.

(3) ELECTRONIC FILING.—[Section
6011(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6011) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(8) QUALIFIED OPPORTUNITY FUNDS AND QUALIFIED RURAL OPPORTUNITY
FUNDS.—Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), any return filed by a qualified
opportunity fund or qualified rural opportunity fund shall be filed on
magnetic media or other machine-readable form.”.

(4) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—

(A) The table of sections for subpart A of part III of subchapter A of
[chapter 61](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter61-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 6039J the following new items:

  
“Sec. 6039K. Returns with respect to qualified opportunity funds and qualified
rural opportunity funds.  
“Sec. 6039L. Information required from qualified opportunity zone businesses
and qualified rural opportunity zone businesses.”.”.

(B) The table of sections for part II of subchapter B of [chapter
68](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter68-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 6725 the following new item:

  
“Sec. 6726. Failure to comply with information reporting requirements relating
to qualified opportunity funds and qualified rural opportunity funds.”.

(5) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to
taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.

(e) Secretary reporting of data on opportunity zone and rural opportunity zone
tax incentives.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practical after the date of the enactment of this
Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury, or the
Secretary’s delegate (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) shall
make publicly available a report on qualified opportunity funds.

(2) INFORMATION INCLUDED.—The report required under paragraph (1) shall
include, to the extent available, the following information:

(A) The number of qualified opportunity funds.

(B) The aggregate dollar amount of assets held in qualified opportunity funds.

(C) The aggregate dollar amount of investments made by qualified opportunity
funds in qualified opportunity fund property, stated separately for each North
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code.

(D) The percentage of population census tracts designated as qualified
opportunity zones that have received qualified opportunity fund investments.

(E) For each population census tract designated as a qualified opportunity
zone, the approximate average monthly number of full-time equivalent employees
of the qualified opportunity zone businesses in such qualified opportunity
zone for the preceding 12-month period (within numerical ranges identified by
the Secretary) or such other indication of the employment impact of such
qualified opportunity fund businesses as determined appropriate by the
Secretary.

(F) The percentage of the total amount of investments made by qualified
opportunity funds in—

(i) qualified opportunity zone property which is real property; and

(ii) other qualified opportunity zone property.

(G) For each population census tract, the aggregate approximate number of
residential units resulting from investments made by qualified opportunity
funds in real property.

(H) The aggregate dollar amount of investments made by qualified opportunity
funds in each population census tract.

(3) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Beginning with the report submitted under paragraph (1) for
the 6th year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall
include in such report the impacts and outcomes of a designation of a
population census tract as a qualified opportunity zone as measured by
economic indicators, such as job creation, poverty reduction, new business
starts, and other metrics as determined by the Secretary.

(B) SEMI-DECENNIAL INFORMATION.—

(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any report submitted under paragraph (1) in the
6th year or the 11th year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall include the following information:

(I) For population census tracts designated as a qualified opportunity zone, a
comparison (based on aggregate information) of the factors listed in clause
(iii) between the 5-year period ending on the date of the enactment of [Public
Law
115–97](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ97/pdf/PLAW-115publ97.pdf)
and the most recent 5-year period for which data is available.

(II) For population census tracts designated as a qualified opportunity zone,
a comparison (based on aggregate information) of the factors listed in clause
(iii) for the most recent 5-year period for which data is available between
such population census tracts and a similar population census tracts that were
not designated as a qualified opportunity zone.

(ii) CONTROL GROUPS.—For purposes of clause (i), the Secretary may combine
population census tracts into such groups as the Secretary determines
appropriate for purposes of making comparisons.

(iii) FACTORS LISTED.—The factors listed in this clause are the following:

(I) The unemployment rate.

(II) The number of persons working in the population census tract, including
the percentage of such persons who were not residents in the population census
tract in the preceding year.

(III) Individual, family, and household poverty rates.

(IV) Median family income of residents of the population census tract.

(V) Demographic information on residents of the population census tract,
including age, income, education, race, and employment.

(VI) The average percentage of income of residents of the population census
tract spent on rent annually.

(VII) The number of residences in the population census tract.

(VIII) The rate of home ownership in the population census tract.

(IX) The average value of residential property in the population census tract.

(X) The number of affordable housing units in the population census tract.

(XI) The number and percentage of residents in the population census tract
that were not employed for the preceding year.

(XII) The number of new business starts in the population census tract.

(XIII) The distribution of employees in the population census tract by North
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code.

(4) PROTECTION OF IDENTIFIABLE RETURN INFORMATION.—In making reports required
under this subsection, the Secretary—

(A) shall establish appropriate procedures to ensure that any amounts reported
do not disclose taxpayer return information that can be associated with any
particular taxpayer or competitive or proprietary information, and

(B) if necessary to protect taxpayer return information, may combine
information required with respect to individual population census tracts into
larger geographic areas.

(5) DEFINITIONS.—Any term used in this subsection which is also used in
subchapter Z of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 shall have the meaning given such term under such subchapter.

(6) REPORTS ON QUALIFIED RURAL OPPORTUNITY FUNDS.—The Secretary shall make
publicly available, with respect to qualified rural opportunity funds,
separate reports as required under this subsection, applied—

(A) by substituting “qualified rural opportunity” for “qualified opportunity”
each place it appears,

(B) by substituting a reference to this Act for “Public Law 115–97”, and

(C) by treating any reference (after the application of subparagraph (A)) to
qualified rural opportunity zone stock, qualified rural opportunity zone
partnership interest, qualified rural opportunity zone business, or qualified
opportunity zone business property as stock, interest, business, or property,
respectively, described in subclause (I) or (II), as the case may be, of
[section
1400Z–2(b)(2)(B)(vii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=1400Z)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

SEC. 111103.  Increased dollar limitations for expensing of certain
depreciable business assets.

(a) In general.—[Section
179(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=179) is
amended—

(1) in paragraph (1), by striking “$1,000,000” and inserting “$2,500,000” ,
and

(2) in paragraph (2), by striking “$2,500,000” and inserting “$4,000,000”.

(b) Conforming amendments.—[Section
179(b)(6)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=179)
is amended—

(1) by inserting “(2025 in the case of the dollar amounts in paragraphs (1)
and (2))” after “In the case of any taxable year beginning after 2018”, and

(2) in clause (ii), by striking “determined by substituting  ‘calendar year
2017’ for  ‘calendar year 2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.” and
inserting “determined by substituting in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof—

“(I) in the case of amounts in paragraphs (1) and (2), ‘calendar year 2024’
for ‘calendar year 2016’, and

“(II) in the case of the amount in paragraph (5)(A), ‘calendar year 2017’ for
‘calendar year 2016’.”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
property placed in service in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 111104.  Repeal of revision to de minimis rules for third party network
transactions.

(a) Reinstatement of exception for de minimis payments as in effect prior to
enactment of American Rescue Plan Act of 2021.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
6050W(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6050W)
is amended to read as follows:

“(e) Exception for de minimis payments by third party settlement
organizations.—A third party settlement organization shall be required to
report any information under subsection (a) with respect to third party
network transactions of any participating payee only if—

“(1) the amount which would otherwise be reported under subsection (a)(2) with
respect to such transactions exceeds $20,000, and

“(2) the aggregate number of such transactions exceeds 200.”.

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made by this subsection shall take effect as
if included in section 9674 of the American Rescue Plan Act.

(b) Application of de minimis rule for third party network transactions to
backup withholding.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
3406(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=3406) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(8) OTHER REPORTABLE PAYMENTS INCLUDE PAYMENTS IN SETTLEMENT OF THIRD PARTY
NETWORK TRANSACTIONS ONLY WHERE AGGREGATE TRANSACTIONS EXCEED REPORTING
THRESHOLD FOR THE CALENDAR YEAR.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Any payment in settlement of a third party network
transaction required to be shown on a return required under section 6050W
which is made during any calendar year shall be treated as a reportable
payment only if—

“(i) the aggregate number of transactions with respect to the participating
payee during such calendar year exceeds the number of transactions specified
in section 6050W(e)(2), and

“(ii) the aggregate amount of transactions with respect to the participating
payee during such calendar year exceeds the dollar amount specified in section
6050W(e)(1) at the time of such payment.

“(B) EXCEPTION IF THIRD PARTY NETWORK TRANSACTIONS MADE IN PRIOR YEAR WERE
REPORTABLE.—Subparagraph (A) shall not apply with respect to payments to any
participating payee during any calendar year if one or more payments in
settlement of third party network transactions made by the payor to the
participating payee during the preceding calendar year were reportable
payments.”.

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made by this subsection shall apply to
calendar years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 111105. Increase in threshold for requiring information reporting with
respect to certain payees.

(a) In general.—[Section
6041(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6041) is
amended by striking “$600” and inserting “$2,000”.

(b) Inflation adjustment.—[Section
6041](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6041) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(h) Inflation adjustment.—In the case of any calendar year after 2026, the
dollar amount in subsection (a) shall be increased by an amount equal to—

“(1) such dollar amount, multiplied by

“(2) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for such
calendar year, determined by substituting ‘calendar year 2025’ for ‘calendar
year 2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.

If any increase under the preceding sentence is not a multiple of $100, such
increase shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $100.”.

(c) Application to reporting on remuneration for services.—[Section
6041A(a)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6041A)
is amended by striking “is $600 or more” and inserting “equals or exceeds the
dollar amount in effect for such calendar year under section 6041(a)”.

(d) Application to backup withholding.—[Section
3406(b)(6)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=3406)
is amended—

(1) by striking “$600” in subparagraph (A) and inserting “the dollar amount in
effect for such calendar year under section 6041(a)”, and

(2) by striking “only where aggregate for calendar year is $600 or more” in
the heading and inserting “only if in excess of threshold”.

(e) Conforming amendments.—

(1) The heading of [section
6041(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6041) is
amended by striking “of $600 or more” and inserting “exceeding threshold”.

(2) [Section
6041(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6041) is
amended by striking “taxable year” and inserting “calendar year”.

(f) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply with
respect to payments made after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 111106.  Exclusion of interest on loans secured by rural or agricultural
real property.

(a) In general.—Part III of subchapter B of chapter 1, as amended by the
preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by inserting after section 139J
the following new section:

“SEC. 139K.  Interest on loans secured by rural or agricultural real property.

“(a) In general.—Gross income shall not include 25 percent of the interest
received by a qualified lender on any qualified real estate loan.

“(b) Qualified lender.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘qualified
lender’ means—

“(1) any bank or savings association the deposits of which are insured under
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act ([12 U.S.C. 1811 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=12&section=1811)),

“(2) any State- or federally-regulated insurance company,

“(3) any entity wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by a company that is
treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the
International Banking Act of 1978 ([12 U.S.C.
3106](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=12&section=3106)) if—

“(A) such entity is organized, incorporated, or established under the laws of
the United States or any State of the United States, and

“(B) the principal place of business of such entity is in the United States
(including any territory of the United States),

“(4) any entity wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by a company that is
considered an insurance holding company under the laws of any State if such
entity satisfies the requirements described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of
paragraph (3), and

“(5) with respect to interest received on a qualified real estate loan secured
by real estate described in subsection (c)(3)(A), any federally chartered
instrumentality of the United States established under section 8.1(a) of the
Farm Credit Act of 1971 ([12 U.S.C.
2279aa-1(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=12&section=2279aa-1)).

“(c) Qualified real estate loan.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified real estate loan’ means any loan—

“(A) secured by—

“(i) rural or agricultural real estate, or

“(ii) a leasehold mortgage (with a status as a lien) on rural or agricultural
real estate,

“(B) made to a person other than a specified foreign entity (as defined in
section 7701(a)(51)), and

“(C) made after the date of the enactment of this section and before January
1, 2029.

For purposes of the preceding sentence, the determination of whether property
securing such loan is rural or agricultural real estate shall be made as of
the time the interest income on such loan is accrued.

“(2) REFINANCINGS.—For purposes of subparagraphs (A) and (C) of paragraph (1),
a loan shall not be treated as made after the date of the enactment of this
section to the extent that the proceeds of such loan are used to refinance a
loan which was made on or before the date of the enactment of this section
(or, in the case of any series of refinancings, the original loan was made on
or before such date).

“(3) RURAL OR AGRICULTURAL REAL ESTATE.—The term ‘rural or agricultural real
estate’ means—

“(A) any real property which is substantially used for the production of one
or more agricultural products,

“(B) any real property which is substantially used in the trade or business of
fishing or seafood processing, and

“(C) any aquaculture facility.

Such term shall not include any property which is not located in a State or a
possession of the United States.

“(4) AQUACULTURE FACILITY.—The term ‘aquaculture facility’ means any land,
structure, or other appurtenance that is used for aquaculture (including any
hatchery, rearing pond, raceway, pen, or incubator).

“(d) Coordination with section 265.—Qualified real estate loans shall be
treated as obligations described in section 265(a)(2) the interest on which is
wholly exempt from the taxes imposed by this subtitle.”.

(b) Clerical amendment.—The table of sections for part III of subchapter B of
chapter 1, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section 139J the following new item:

  
“Sec. 139K. Interest on loans secured by rural or agricultural real
property.”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years ending after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 111107. Treatment of certain qualified sound recording productions.

(a) Election To treat costs as expenses.—[Section
181(a)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=181)
is amended by striking “qualified film or television production, and any
qualified live theatrical production,” and inserting “qualified film or
television production, any qualified live theatrical production, and any
qualified sound recording production”.

(b) Dollar limitation.—[Section
181(a)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=181)
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) QUALIFIED SOUND RECORDING PRODUCTION.—Paragraph (1) shall not apply to so
much of the aggregate cost of any qualified sound recording production, or to
so much of the aggregate, cumulative cost of all such qualified sound
recording productions in the taxable year, as exceeds $150,000.”.

(c) No other deduction or amortization deduction allowable.—[Section
181(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=181) is
amended by striking “qualified film or television production or any qualified
live theatrical production” and inserting “qualified film or television
production, any qualified live theatrical production, or any qualified sound
recording production”.

(d) Election.—[Section
181(c)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=181)
is amended by striking “qualified film or television production or any
qualified live theatrical production” and inserting “qualified film or
television production, any qualified live theatrical production, or any
qualified sound recording production”.

(e) Qualified sound recording production defined.—[Section
181](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=181) is
amended by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (g) and (h),
respectively, and by inserting after subsection (e) the following new
subsection:

“(f) Qualified sound recording production.—For purposes of this section, the
term ‘qualified sound recording production’ means a sound recording (as
defined in section 101 of title 17, United States Code) produced and recorded
in the United States.”.

(f) Application of termination.—[Section
181(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=181) is
amended by striking “qualified film and television productions or qualified
live theatrical productions” and inserting “qualified film and television
productions, qualified live theatrical productions, and qualified sound
recording productions”.

(g) Bonus depreciation.—

(1) QUALIFIED SOUND RECORDING PRODUCTION AS QUALIFIED PROPERTY.—[Section
168(k)(2)(A)(i)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=168)
is amended—

(A) by striking “or” at the end of subclause (IV), by inserting “or” at the
end of subclause (V), and by inserting after subclause (V) the following:

“(VI) which is a qualified sound recording production (as defined in
subsection (f) of section 181) which is placed in service before January 1,
2029, for which a deduction would have been allowable under section 181
without regard to subsections (a)(2) and (h) of such section or this
subsection, and”, and

(B) in subclauses (IV) and (V) (as so amended) by striking “without regard to
subsections (a)(2) and (g)” both places it appears and inserting “without
regard to subsections (a)(2) and (h)”.

(2) PRODUCTION PLACED IN SERVICE.—[Section
168(k)(2)(H)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=168)
is amended by striking “and” at the end of clause (i), by striking the period
at the end of clause (ii) and inserting “, and”, and by adding after clause
(ii) the following:

“(iii) a qualified sound recording production shall be considered to be placed
in service at the time of initial release or broadcast.”.

(h) Conforming amendments.—

(1) The heading for [section
181](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=181) is
amended to read as follows: “Treatment of certain qualified productions.”.

(2) The table of sections for part VI of subchapter B of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by striking the item
relating to section 181 and inserting the following new item:

  
“Sec. 181. Treatment of certain qualified productions.”.

(i) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
productions commencing in taxable years ending after the date of the enactment
of this Act.

SEC. 111108.  Modifications to low-income housing credit.

(a) State housing credit ceiling increase for low-income housing credit.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
42(h)(3)(I)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=42)
is amended—

(A) by striking “and 2021,” and inserting “2021, 2026, 2027, 2028, and 2029,”,
and

(B) by striking “2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021” in the heading and inserting
“certain calendar years”.

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to
calendar years after 2025.

(b) Tax-exempt bond financing requirement.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
42(h)(4)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=42) is
amended by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:

“(B) SPECIAL RULE WHERE MINIMUM PERCENT OF BUILDINGS IS FINANCED WITH TAX-
EXEMPT BONDS SUBJECT TO VOLUME CAP.—For purposes of subparagraph (A),
paragraph (1) shall not apply to any portion of the credit allowable under
subsection (a) with respect to a building if—

“(i) 50 percent or more of the aggregate basis of such building and the land
on which the building is located is financed by 1 or more obligations
described in subparagraph (A), or

“(ii) (I) 25 percent or more of the aggregate basis of such building and the
land on which the building is located is financed by 1 or more qualified
obligations, and

“(II) 1 or more of such qualified obligations—

“(aa) are part of an issue the issue date of which is after December 31, 2025,
and

“(bb) provide the financing for not less than 5 percent of the aggregate basis
of such building and the land on which the building is located.

“(C) QUALIFIED OBLIGATION.—For purposes of subparagraph (B)(ii), the term
‘qualified obligation’ means an obligation which is described in subparagraph
(A) and which is part of an issue the issue date of which is before January 1,
2030.”.

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—The amendment made by this subsection shall apply to buildings
placed in service in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025.

(B) REHABILITATION EXPENDITURES TREATED AS SEPARATE NEW BUILDING.—In the case
of any building with respect to which any expenditures are treated as a
separate new building under [section
42(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=42) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, for purposes of subparagraph (A), both the
existing building and the separate new building shall be treated as having
been placed in service on the date such expenditures are treated as placed in
service under section 42(e)(4) of such Code.

(c) Temporary inclusion of Indian areas and rural areas as difficult
development areas for purposes of certain buildings.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
42(d)(5)(B)(iii)(I)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=42)
is amended by inserting before the period the following: “, and, in the case
of buildings placed in service after December 31, 2025 and before January 1,
2030, any Indian area or rural area”.

(2) INDIAN AREA; RURAL AREA.—[Section
42(d)(5)(B)(iii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=42)
is amended by redesignating subclause (II) as subclause (IV) and by inserting
after subclause (I) the following new subclauses:

“(II) INDIAN AREA.—For purposes of subclause (I), the term ‘Indian area’ means
any Indian area (as defined in section 4(11) of the Native American Housing
Assistance and Self Determination Act of 1996 ([25 U.S.C.
4103(11)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=25&section=4103)))
and any housing area (as defined in section 801(5) of such Act ([25 U.S.C.
4221(5)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=25&section=4221))).

“(III) RURAL AREA.—For purposes of subclause (I), the term ‘rural area’ means
any non-metropolitan area, or any rural area as defined by section 520 of the
Housing Act of 1949, which is identified by the qualified allocation plan
under subsection (m)(1)(B).”.

(3) ELIGIBLE BUILDINGS.—Section 42(d)(5)(B)(iii), as amended by paragraph (2),
is further amended by adding at the end the following new subclause:

“(V) SPECIAL RULE FOR BUILDINGS IN INDIAN AREAS.—In the case of an area which
is a difficult development area solely because it is an Indian area under this
section, a building shall not be treated as located in such area unless such
building is assisted or financed under the Native American Housing Assistance
and Self Determination Act of 1996 ([25 U.S.C. 4101 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=25&section=4101)) or
the project sponsor is an Indian tribe (as defined in section 45A(c)(6)), a
tribally designated housing entity (as defined in section 4(22) of such Act
([25 U.S.C.
4103(22)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=25&section=4103))),
or wholly owned or controlled by such an Indian tribe or tribally designated
housing entity.”.

(4) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to
buildings placed in service after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 111109. Increased gross receipts threshold for small manufacturing
businesses.

(a) In general.—[Section
448(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=448) is
amended by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5) and by inserting after
paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:

“(4) GROSS RECEIPTS TEST FOR MANUFACTURING TAXPAYERS.—In the case of a
manufacturing taxpayer, paragraph (1) shall be applied by substituting
‘$80,000,000’ for ‘$25,000,000’.”.

(b) Inflation adjustment.—Section 448(c)(5) (as so redesignated) is amended by
striking “the dollar amount in paragraph (1) shall be increased” and inserting
“the dollar amounts in paragraphs (1) and (4) shall each be increased”.

(c) Manufacturing taxpayer defined.—[Section
448(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=448) is
amended by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (9) and by inserting after
paragraph (7) the following new paragraph:

“(8) MANUFACTURING TAXPAYER.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘manufacturing taxpayer’ means a corporation or
partnership substantially all the gross receipts of which during the
3-taxable-year period described in subsection (c)(1) are derived from the
lease, rental, license, sale, exchange, or other disposition of qualified
products.

“(B) QUALIFIED PRODUCT.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term ‘qualified
product’ means a product that is both—

“(i) tangible personal property which is not a food or beverage prepared in
the same building as a retail establishment in which substantially similar
property is sold to the public, and

“(ii) produced or manufactured by the taxpayer in a manner which results in a
substantial transformation (within the meaning of section 168(n)(2)(D)) of the
property comprising the product.

“(C) AGGREGATION RULE.—Solely for purposes of determining whether a taxpayer
is a manufacturing taxpayer under subparagraph (A)—

“(i) gross receipts shall be determined under the rules of paragraphs (2) and
(3) of subsection (c), and

“(ii) for purposes of subsection (c)(2), in applying section 52(b), the term
‘trade or business’ shall include any activity treated as a trade or business
under paragraph (5) or (6) of section 469(c) (determined without regard to the
phrase ‘To the extent provided in regulations’ in such paragraph (6)).”.

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 111110.  Global intangible low-taxed income determined without regard to
certain income derived from services performed in the Virgin Islands.

(a) In general.—[Section
951A(c)(2)(A)(i)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=951A)
is amended by striking “and” at the end of subclause (IV), by striking “,
over” at the end of subclause (V) and inserting “, and”, and by adding at the
end the following new subclause:

“(VI) in the case of any specified United States shareholder, any qualified
Virgin Islands services income, over”.

(b) Definitions and special rules.—[Section
951A(c)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=951A)
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) PROVISIONS RELATED TO QUALIFIED VIRGIN ISLANDS SERVICES INCOME.—For
purposes of subparagraph (A)(i)(VI)—

“(i) QUALIFIED VIRGIN ISLANDS SERVICES INCOME.—The term ‘qualified Virgin
Islands services income’ means any gross income which satisfies all of the
following requirements:

“(I) Such gross income is compensation for labor or personal services
performed in the Virgin Islands by a corporation formed under the laws of the
Virgin Islands.

“(II) Such gross income is attributable to services performed from within the
Virgin Islands by individuals for the benefit of such corporation.

“(III) Such gross income is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade
or business within the Virgin Islands.

“(ii) SPECIFIED UNITED STATES SHAREHOLDER.—The term ‘specified United States
shareholder’ means any United States shareholder which is—

“(I) an individual, trust, or estate, or

“(II) a closely held C corporation (as defined in section 469(j)(1)) if such
corporation acquired its direct or indirect equity interest in the foreign
corporation which derived the qualified Virgin Islands services income before
December 31, 2023.

“(iii) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations or other
guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out this subparagraph and
subparagraph (A)(i)(VI), including regulations or other guidance to prevent
the abuse of such subparagraphs.”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years of foreign corporations beginning after the date of the enactment of
this Act, and to taxable years of United States shareholders with or within
which such taxable years of foreign corporations end.

SEC. 111111.  Extension and modification of clean fuel production credit.

(a) Prohibition on foreign feedstocks.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
45Z(f)(1)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45Z)
is amended—

(A) in clause (i)(II)(bb), by striking “and” at the end,

(B) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and inserting “, and”,
and

(C) by adding at the end the following new clause:

“(iii) such fuel is exclusively derived from a feedstock which was produced or
grown in the United States, Mexico, or Canada.”.

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to
transportation fuel sold after December 31, 2025.

(b) Determination of emissions rate.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
45Z(b)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45Z)
is amended by adding at the end the following new clauses:

“(iv) EXCLUSION OF INDIRECT LAND USE CHANGES.—Notwithstanding clauses (ii) and
(iii), the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions shall be adjusted as necessary
to exclude any emissions attributed to indirect land use change. Any such
adjustment shall be based on regulations or methodologies determined by the
Secretary in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency and the Secretary of Agriculture.

“(v) ANIMAL MANURES.—For purposes of the table described in clause (i), with
respect to any transportation fuels which are derived from animal manure, a
distinct emissions rate shall be provided with respect to each of the specific
feedstocks used to such produce such fuel, which shall include dairy manure,
swine manure, poultry manure, and such other sources as are determined
appropriate by the Secretary.”.

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—[Section
45Z(b)(1)(B)(i)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45Z)
is amended by striking “clauses (ii) and (iii)” and inserting “clauses (ii),
(iii), (iv), and (v)”.

(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to
emissions rates published for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025.

(c) Extension of clean fuel production credit.—[Section
45Z(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45Z) is
amended by striking “December 31, 2027” and inserting “December 31, 2031”.

(d) Restrictions relating to prohibited foreign entities.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
45Z(f)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45Z) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(8) RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—No credit determined under subsection (a) shall be allowed
under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the date of enactment of
this paragraph if the taxpayer is a specified foreign entity (as defined in
section 7701(a)(51)(B)).

“(B) OTHER PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—No credit determined under subsection
(a) shall be allowed under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the
date which is 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph if the
taxpayer is a foreign-influenced entity (as defined in section
7701(a)(51)(D)).”.

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made by this subsection shall apply to
taxable years beginning after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 111112. Restoration of taxable REIT subsidiary asset test.

(a) In general.—[Section
856(c)(4)(B)(ii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=856)
is amended by striking “20 percent” and inserting “25 percent”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

PART 3—Investing in the Health of Rural America and Main Street

SEC. 111201. Expanding the definition of rural emergency hospital under the
Medicare program.

(a) In general.—Section 1861(kkk) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1395x(kkk)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1395x))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (2)—

(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking “the detailed transition plan” and all
that follows through “such paragraph” and inserting “the detailed transition
plan described in clause (i)(I) of such paragraph or the assessment of health
care needs described in clause (i)(II) of such paragraph, as applicable,”;

(B) in subparagraph (D)(vi), by striking the period at the end and inserting
“; and”; and

(C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(E) in the case of a facility described in paragraph (3)(B)—

“(i) submits an application under section 1866(j) to enroll under this title
as a rural emergency hospital—

“(I) in the case that such facility is located in a State that, as of January
1, 2027, provides for the licensing of rural emergency hospitals under State
or applicable local law (as described in paragraph (5)(A)), not later than
December 31, 2027; and

“(II) in the case that such facility is located in a State that, as of January
1, 2027, does not provide for the licensing of such rural emergency hospitals
under State or applicable local law (as so described), not later than the date
that is 1 year after the date on which such State begins to provide for such
licensing; and

“(ii) in the case that such facility is located less than 35 miles away from
the nearest hospital, critical access hospital, or rural emergency hospital as
of the date on which such facility submits an application under section
1866(j) to enroll under this title as a rural emergency hospital, beginning
not later than 1 year after the end of the first full cost reporting period
for which the facility is so enrolled, demonstrates annually, in a form and
manner determined appropriate by the Secretary, that more than 50 percent of
the services furnished for the most recent cost reporting period (as
determined by the Secretary) were services described in paragraph (1)(A)(i),
as determined based on discharges of individuals entitled to benefits under
part A or enrolled under part B during such cost reporting period.”;

(2) in paragraph (3)—

(A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii),
respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly;

(B) by striking “A facility” and inserting:

“(A) IN GENERAL.—A facility”; and

(C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(B) ADDITIONAL FACILITIES.—Beginning January 1, 2027, a facility described in
this paragraph shall also include a facility that—

“(i) at any time during the period beginning January 1, 2014, and ending
December 26, 2020—

“(I) was a critical access hospital; or

“(II) was a subsection (d) hospital (as defined in section 1886(d)(1)(B)) with
not more than 50 beds located in a county (or equivalent unit of local
government) in a rural area (as defined in section 1886(d)(2)(D)); and

“(ii) as of December 27, 2020, was not enrolled in the program under this
title under section 1866(j).”; and

(3) in paragraph (4)—

(A) in subparagraph (A)(i)—

(i) in subclause (IV), by striking the period at the end and inserting “;
and”;

(ii) by redesignating subclauses (I) through (IV) as items (aa) through (dd),
respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly;

(iii) by striking “including a detailed” and inserting “including—

“(I) except in the case of a facility described in paragraph (3)(B), a
detailed”; and

(iv) by adding at the end the following new subclause:

“(II) in the case of a facility described in paragraph (3)(B), an assessment
of the health care needs of the county (or equivalent unit of local
government) in which such facility is located, which shall include—

“(aa) a description of the services furnished by the facility during the
period that such facility was enrolled in the program under this title under
section 1866(j);

“(bb) a description of the reasons that the facility, as of December 27, 2020,
was no longer so enrolled;

“(cc) the population of such county (or equivalent unit);

“(dd) the percentage of such population who are individuals entitled to
benefits under part A or enrolled under part B; and

“(ee) a description of any lack of access to health care services experienced
by such individuals, and an explanation of how reopening the facility as a
rural emergency hospital would mitigate such lack of access.”.

(b) Amendments to payment rules.—Section 1834(x) of the Social Security Act
([42 U.S.C.
1395m(x)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1395m))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting “, except that, in the case of a facility
described in section 1861(kkk)(3)(B) that, as of the date on which such
facility submits an application under section 1866(j) to enroll under this
title as a rural emergency hospital, is located less than 35 miles away from
the nearest hospital, critical access hospital, or rural emergency hospital,
such increase shall not apply” before the period at the end; and

(2) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting “(other than a facility described in
section 1861(kkk)(3)(B) that, as of the date on which such facility submits an
application under section 1866(j) to enroll under this title as a rural
emergency hospital, is located less than 10 miles away from the nearest
hospital, critical access hospital, or rural emergency hospital)” after “rural
emergency hospital”.

subtitle C—Make America Win Again

PART 1—Working Families over Elites

SEC. 112001.  Termination of previously-owned clean vehicle credit.

(a) In general.—[Section
25E(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=25E) is
amended by striking “December 31, 2032” and inserting “December 31, 2025”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to vehicles
acquired after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112002.  Termination of clean vehicle credit.

(a) In general.—[Section
30D](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=30D) is
amended—

(1) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (i), and

(2) in subsection (i), as so redesignated, by striking “December 31, 2032” and
inserting “December 31, 2026”.

(b) Special rule for taxable year 2026.—[Section
30D](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=30D) is
amended by inserting after subsection (g) the following new subsection:

“(h) Special rule for taxable year 2026.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—With respect to any vehicle placed in service after December
31, 2025, such vehicle shall not be treated as a new clean vehicle for
purposes of this section if, during the period beginning on December 31, 2009,
and ending on December 31, 2025, the number of covered vehicles manufactured
by the manufacturer of such vehicle which are sold for use in the United
States is greater than 200,000.

“(2) COVERED VEHICLES.—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘covered
vehicles’ means—

“(A) with respect to vehicles placed in service before January 1, 2023, new
qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicles (as defined in subsection
(d)(1), as in effect on December 31, 2022), and

“(B) new clean vehicles.

“(3) CONTROLLED GROUPS.—Rules similar to the rules of section 30B(f)(4) shall
apply for purposes of this subsection.”.

(c) Conforming amendments.—[Section
30D(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=30D) is
amended—

(1) in paragraph (1)(B)—

(A) in clause (iii), by inserting “and” after the comma at the end,

(B) in clause (iv), by striking “, and” and inserting a period, and

(C) by striking clause (v), and

(2) in paragraph (2)(B)—

(A) in clause (ii), by inserting “and” after the comma at the end,

(B) in clause (iii), by striking the comma at the end and inserting a period,
and

(C) by striking clauses (iv) through (vi).

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
vehicles placed in service after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112003.  Termination of qualified commercial clean vehicles credit.

(a) In general.—[Section
45W(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45W) is
amended to read as follows:

“(g) Termination.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—No credit shall be determined under this section with respect
to any vehicle acquired after December 31, 2025.

“(2) EXCEPTION FOR BINDING CONTRACTS.—Paragraph (1) shall not apply with
respect to vehicles placed in service before January 1, 2033, and acquired
pursuant to a written binding contract entered into before May 12, 2025.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to vehicles
acquired after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112004.  Termination of alternative fuel vehicle refueling property
credit.

(a) In general.—[Section
30C(i)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=30C) is
amended by striking “December 31, 2032” and inserting “December 31, 2025”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to property
placed in service after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112005.  Termination of energy efficient home improvement credit.

(a) In general.—[Section
25C(i)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=25C) is
amended to read as follows:

“(i) Termination.—This section shall not apply with respect to any property
placed in service after December 31, 2025.”.

(b) Conforming amendments.—

(1) [Section
25C(d)(2)(C)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=25C)
is amended to read as follows:

“(C) Any oil furnace or hot water boiler which is placed in service before
January 1, 2026, and—

“(i) meets or exceeds 2021 Energy Star efficiency criteria, and

“(ii) is rated by the manufacturer for use with fuel blends at least 20
percent of the volume of which consists of an eligible fuel.”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
property placed in service after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112006.  Termination of residential clean energy credit.

(a) In general.—[Section
25D(h)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=25D) is
amended by striking “December 31, 2034” and inserting “December 31, 2025”.

(b) Conforming amendments.—[Section
25D(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=25D) is
amended—

(1) in paragraph (2), by inserting “and” after the comma at the end,

(2) in paragraph (3), by striking “January 1, 2033, 30 percent,” and inserting
“January 1, 2026, 30 percent.”, and

(3) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5).

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
property placed in service after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112007.  Termination of new energy efficient home credit.

(a) In general.—[Section
45L(h)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45L) is
amended to read as follows:

“(h) Termination.—This section shall not apply to any qualified new energy
efficient home acquired after December 31, 2025 (December 31, 2026, in the
case of any home for which construction began before May 12, 2025).”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to homes
acquired after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112008.  Restrictions on clean electricity production credit.

(a) Termination of credit.—[Section
45Y](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45Y) is
amended by striking subsection (d) and by adding at the end the following new
subsection:

“(h) Termination of credit.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), no credit shall
be allowed under this section for any qualified facility—

“(A) the construction of which begins after the date which is 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this subsection, or

“(B) which is placed in service after December 31, 2028.

“(2) ADVANCED NUCLEAR FACILITIES.—In the case of any qualified facility that
is an advanced nuclear facility (as defined in section 45J(d)(2))—

“(A) paragraph (1) shall not apply, and

“(B) no credit shall be allowed under this section for any such facility the
construction of which begins after December 31, 2028.

“(3) EXPANSION OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES.—In the case of any nuclear facility the
reactor design for which is approved by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission—

“(A) paragraph (1) shall not apply, and

“(B) no credit shall be allowed under this section for any such facility the
expansion of which begins after December 31, 2028.”.

(b) Restrictions relating to prohibited foreign entities.—[Section
45Y](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45Y) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (b)(1), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(E) MATERIAL ASSISTANCE FROM PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—The term ‘qualified
facility’ shall not include any facility for which construction begins after
December 31, 2025 if the construction of such facility includes any material
assistance from a prohibited foreign entity (as defined in section
7701(a)(52)).”, and

(2) in subsection (g), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(13) RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—No credit determined under subsection (a) shall be allowed
under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the date of enactment of
this paragraph if the taxpayer is a specified foreign entity (as defined in
section 7701(a)(51)(B)).

“(B) OTHER PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—No credit determined under subsection
(a) shall be allowed under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the
date which is 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph if—

“(i) the taxpayer is a foreign-influenced entity (as defined in section
7701(a)(51)(D)), or

“(ii) during such taxable year, the taxpayer—

“(I) makes a payment of dividends, interest, compensation for services,
rentals or royalties, guarantees or any other fixed, determinable, annual, or
periodic amount to a prohibited foreign entity (as defined in section
7701(a)(51)) in an amount which is equal to or greater than 5 percent of the
total of such payments made by such taxpayer during such taxable year which
are related to the production of electricity, or

“(II) makes payments described in subclause (I) to more than 1 prohibited
foreign entity (as so defined) in an amount which, in the aggregate, is equal
to or greater than 15 percent of the total of such payments made by such
taxpayer during such taxable year which are related to the production of
electricity.”.

(c) Definitions relating to prohibited foreign entities.—[Section
7701(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=7701) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:

“(51) PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITY.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘prohibited foreign entity’ means a specified
foreign entity or a foreign-influenced entity.

“(B) SPECIFIED FOREIGN ENTITY.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term
‘specified foreign entity’ means—

“(i) a foreign entity of concern described in subparagraph (A), (B), (D), or
(E) of section 9901(8) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 ([Public Law
116–283](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-116publ283/pdf/PLAW-116publ283.pdf);
[15 U.S.C.
4651](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=4651)),

“(ii) an entity identified as a Chinese military company operating in the
United States in accordance with section 1260H of the William M. (Mac)
Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 ([Public
Law
116–283](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-116publ283/pdf/PLAW-116publ283.pdf);
[10 U.S.C.
113](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=10&section=113) note),

“(iii) an entity included on a list required by clause (i), (ii), (iv), or (v)
of section 2(d)(2)(B) of [Public Law
117–78](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ78/pdf/PLAW-117publ78.pdf)
(135 Stat. 1527),

“(iv) an entity specified under section 154(b) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 ([Public Law
118–31](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-118publ31/pdf/PLAW-118publ31.pdf);
10 U.S.C. note prec. 4651), or

“(v) a foreign-controlled entity.

“(C) FOREIGN-CONTROLLED ENTITY.—For purposes of subparagraph (B), the term
‘foreign-controlled entity’ means—

“(i) the government of a covered nation (as defined in section 4872(f)(2) of
title 10, United States Code),

“(ii) a person who is a citizen, national, or resident of a covered nation,
provided that such person is not an individual who is a citizen or lawful
permanent resident of the United States,

“(iii) an entity or a qualified business unit (as defined in section 989(a))
incorporated or organized under the laws of, or having its principal place of
business in, a covered nation, or

“(iv) an entity (including subsidiary entities) controlled (as determined
under subparagraph (F)) by an entity described in clause (i), (ii), or (iii).

“(D) FOREIGN-INFLUENCED ENTITY.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term
‘foreign-influenced entity’ means an entity—

“(i) with respect to which, during the taxable year—

“(I) a specified foreign entity has the direct or indirect authority to
appoint a covered officer of such entity,

“(II) a single specified foreign entity owns at least 10 percent of such
entity,

“(III) one or more specified foreign entities own in the aggregate at least 25
percent of such entity, or

“(IV) at least 25 percent of the debt of such entity is held in the aggregate
by one or more specified foreign entities, or

“(ii) which, during the previous taxable year—

“(I) makes a payment of dividends, interest, compensation for services,
rentals or royalties, guarantees or any other fixed, determinable, annual, or
periodic amount to a specified foreign entity in an amount which is equal to
or greater than 10 percent of the total of such payments made by such entity
during such taxable year, or

“(II) makes payments described in subclause (I) to more than 1 specified
foreign entity in an amount which, in the aggregate, is equal to or greater
than 25 percent of the total of such payments made by such entity during such
taxable year.

Clause (ii) shall not apply unless such entity makes such payments knowingly
(or has reason to know).

“(E) COVERED OFFICER.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘covered
officer’ means, with respect to an entity—

“(i) a member of the board of directors, board of supervisors, or equivalent
governing body,

“(ii) an executive-level officer, including the president, chief executive
officer, chief operating officer, chief financial officer, general counsel, or
senior vice president, or

“(iii) an individual having powers or responsibilities similar to those of
officers or members described in clause (i) or (ii).

“(F) DETERMINATION OF CONTROL.—For purposes of subparagraph (C)(iv), the term
‘control’ means—

“(i) in the case of a corporation, ownership (by vote or value) of more than
50 percent of the stock in such corporation,

“(ii) in the case of a partnership, ownership of more than 50 percent of the
profits interests or capital interests in such partnership, or

“(iii) in any other case, ownership of more than 50 percent of the beneficial
interests in the entity.

“(G) DETERMINATION OF OWNERSHIP.—For purposes of this section, section 318
(other than subsection (a)(3) thereof) shall apply for purposes of determining
ownership of stock in a corporation. Similar principles shall apply for
purposes of determining ownership of interests in any other entity.

“(H) REGULATIONS AND GUIDANCE.—The Secretary may prescribe such regulations
and guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the provisions of
this paragraph.

“(52) MATERIAL ASSISTANCE FROM A PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITY.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘material assistance from a prohibited foreign
entity’ means, with respect to any property—

“(i) any component, subcomponent, or applicable critical mineral (as defined
in section 45X(c)(6)) included in such property that is extracted, processed,
recycled, manufactured, or assembled by a prohibited foreign entity, or

“(ii) any design of such property which is based on any copyright or patent
held by a prohibited foreign entity or any know-how or trade secret provided
by a prohibited foreign entity.

“(B) EXCLUSION.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘material assistance from a prohibited foreign
entity’ shall not include any assembly part or constituent material, provided
that such part or material is not acquired directly from a prohibited foreign
entity.

“(ii) ASSEMBLY PART.—For purposes of this subparagraph, the term ‘assembly
part’ means a subcomponent or collection of subcomponents which is—

“(I) not uniquely designed for use in the construction of a qualified facility
described in section 45Y or 48E or an eligible component described in section
45X, and

“(II) not exclusively or predominantly produced by prohibited foreign
entities.

“(iii) CONSTITUENT MATERIAL.—For purposes of this subparagraph, the term
‘constituent material’ means any material which is—

“(I) not uniquely formulated for use in a qualified facility described in
section 45Y or 48E or an eligible component described in section 45X, and

“(II) not exclusively or predominantly produced, processed, or extracted by
prohibited foreign entities.

“(iv) REGULATIONS AND GUIDANCE.—The Secretary may prescribe such regulations
and guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the provisions of
this paragraph.”.

(d) Denial of credit for expenditures for certain wind and solar leasing
arrangements.—[Section
45Y](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45Y), as
amended by subsection (a), is amended by inserting after subsection (c) the
following new subsection:

“(d) Denial of credit for expenditures for wind and solar leasing
arrangements.—No credit shall be allowed under this section for any investment
during the taxable year with respect to property described in paragraph (1),
(2), or (4) of section 25D(d) if—

“(1) the taxpayer rents or leases such property to a third party during such
taxable year, and

“(2) the lessee would qualify for a credit under section 25D with respect to
such property if the lessee owned such property.”.

(e) Effective dates.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amendments made by
this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of
enactment of this Act.

(2) TERMINATION OF CREDIT.—The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
facilities for which construction begins after the date that is 60 days after
the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 112009.  Restrictions on clean electricity investment credit.

(a) Termination of credit.—[Section
48E](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=48E) is
amended by striking subsection (e) and by adding at the end the following new
subsection:

“(j) Termination of credit.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), no credit shall be
allowed under this section for any qualified facility or energy storage
technology—

“(A) the construction of which begins after the date which is 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this subsection, or

“(B) which is placed in service after December 31, 2028.

“(2) ADVANCED NUCLEAR FACILITY.—In the case of any qualified facility that is
an advanced nuclear facility (as defined in section 45J(d)(2))—

“(A) paragraph (1) shall not apply, and

“(B) no credit shall be allowed under this section for any such facility the
construction of which begins after December 31, 2028.”.

(b) Restrictions relating to prohibited foreign entities.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
48E](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=48E) is
amended—

(A) in subsection (b)(3), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(D) MATERIAL ASSISTANCE FROM PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—The term ‘qualified
facility’ shall not include any facility the construction of which begins
after December 31, 2025 if the construction of such facility includes any
material assistance from a prohibited foreign entity (as defined in section
7701(a)(52)).”, and

(B) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(3) MATERIAL ASSISTANCE FROM PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—The term ‘energy
storage technology’ shall not include any property the construction of which
begins after December 31, 2025 if the construction of such property includes
any material assistance from a prohibited foreign entity (as defined in
section 7701(a)(52)).”.

(2) RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—[Section
48E(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=48E) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(6) RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—No credit determined under subsection (a) shall be allowed
under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the date of enactment of
this paragraph if the taxpayer is a specified foreign entity (as defined in
section 7701(a)(51)(B)).

“(B) OTHER PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—No credit determined under subsection
(a) shall be allowed under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the
date which is 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph if—

“(i) the taxpayer is a foreign-influenced entity (as defined in section
7701(a)(51)(D)), or

“(ii) during such taxable year, the taxpayer—

“(I) makes a payment of dividends, interest, compensation for services,
rentals or royalties, guarantees or any other fixed, determinable, annual, or
periodic amount to a prohibited foreign entity (as defined in section
7701(a)(51)) in an amount which is equal to or greater than 5 percent of the
total of such payments made by such taxpayer during such taxable year which
are related to the production of electricity or storage of energy, or

“(II) makes payments described in subclause (I) to more than 1 prohibited
foreign entity (as so defined) in an amount which, in the aggregate, is equal
to or greater than 15 percent of the total of such payments made by such
taxpayer during such taxable year which are related to the production of
electricity or storage of energy.”.

(3) RECAPTURE.—[Section
50(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=50) is
amended—

(A) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (6) as paragraphs (5) through (7),
respectively,

(B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:

“(4) PAYMENTS TO PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If there is an applicable payment made by a specified
taxpayer before the close of the 10-year period beginning on the date such
taxpayer placed in service investment credit property which is eligible for
the clean electricity investment credit under section 48E(a), then the tax
under this chapter for the taxable year in which such applicable payment
occurs shall be increased by 100 percent of the aggregate decrease in the
credits allowed under section 38 for all prior taxable years which would have
resulted solely from reducing to zero any credit determined under section 46
which is attributable to the clean electricity investment credit under section
48E(a) with respect to such property.

“(B) APPLICABLE PAYMENT.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘applicable
payment’ means, with respect to any taxable year, a payment or payments
described in subclause (I) or (II) of section 48E(d)(6)(B)(ii).

“(C) SPECIFIED TAXPAYER.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘specified
taxpayer’ means any taxpayer who has been allowed a credit under section
48E(a) for any taxable year beginning after the date which is 2 years after
the date of enactment of this paragraph.”,

(C) in paragraph (5), as redesignated by subparagraph (A), by striking “or any
applicable transaction to which paragraph (3)(A) applies,” and inserting “any
applicable transaction to which paragraph (3)(A) applies, or any applicable
payment to which paragraph (4)(A) applies,”, and

(D) in paragraph (7), as redesignated by subparagraph (A), by striking “or
(3)” and inserting “(3), or (4)”.

(c) Denial of credit for expenditures for certain wind and solar leasing
arrangements.—[Section
48E](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=48E), as
amended by subsection (a), is amended by inserting after subsection (d) the
following new subsection:

“(e) Denial of credit for expenditures for wind and solar leasing
arrangements.—No credit shall be allowed under this section for any investment
during the taxable year with respect to property described in paragraph (1),
(2), or (4) of section 25D(d) if—

“(1) the taxpayer rents or leases such property to a third party during such
taxable year, and

“(2) the lessee would qualify for a credit under section 25D with respect to
such property if the lessee owned such property.”.

(d) Conforming amendments.—[Section
48E(h)(4)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=48E)
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (C), by striking “December 31 of the applicable year (as
defined in section 45Y(d)(3))” and inserting “December 31, 2028”,

(2) in subparagraph (D), by striking “the third calendar year following the
applicable year (as defined in section 45Y(d)(3))” and inserting “2028”, and

(3) in subparagraph (E)(i), by striking “after the date that is 4 years after
the date of the allocation with respect to the facility of which such property
is a part” and inserting “the earlier of—

“(I) the date that is 4 years after the date of the allocation with respect to
the facility of which such property is a part, or

“(II) December 31, 2028.”.

(e) Effective dates.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amendments made by
this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of
enactment of this Act.

(2) TERMINATION OF CREDIT.—The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
facilities and energy storage technology for which construction begins after
the date that is 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 112010.  Repeal of transferability of clean fuel production credit.

(a) In general.—[Section
6418(f)(1)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6418)
is amended by striking clause (viii).

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to fuel
produced after December 31, 2027.

SEC. 112011.  Restrictions on carbon oxide sequestration credit.

(a) Restrictions relating to prohibited foreign entities.—[Section
45Q(f)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45Q) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(10) RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—No credit determined under subsection (a) shall be allowed
under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the date of enactment of
this paragraph if the taxpayer is a specified foreign entity (as defined in
section 7701(a)(51)(B)).

“(B) OTHER PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—No credit determined under subsection
(a) shall be allowed under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the
date which is 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph if the
taxpayer is a foreign-influenced entity (as defined in section
7701(a)(51)(D)).”.

(b) Repeal of transferability.—Section 6418(f)(1), as amended by [section
112010,](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=112010)
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking clause (iii), and

(2) in subparagraph (B)—

(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking “clause (ii), (iii), or
(v)” and inserting “clause (ii) or (v)”, and

(B) in clause (ii), by striking “(or, in the case” and all that follows
through “at such facility)”.

(c) Effective dates.—

(1) RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—The amendments made
by subsection (a) shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of
enactment of this Act.

(2) REPEAL OF TRANSFERABILITY.—The amendments made by subsection (b) shall
apply to carbon capture equipment the construction of which begins after the
date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 112012. Restrictions on zero-emission nuclear power production credit.

(a) Restrictions relating to prohibited foreign entities.—[Section
45U(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45U) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(3) RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—No credit determined under subsection (a) shall be allowed
under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the date of enactment of
this paragraph if the taxpayer is a specified foreign entity (as defined in
section 7701(a)(51)(B)).

“(B) OTHER PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—No credit determined under subsection
(a) shall be allowed under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the
date which is 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph if the
taxpayer is a foreign-influenced entity (as defined in section
7701(a)(51)(D)).”.

(b) Termination of credit.—[Section
45U(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45U) is
amended by striking “December 31, 2032” and inserting “December 31, 2031”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 112013. Termination of clean hydrogen production credit.

(a) Termination.—[Section
45V(c)(3)(C)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45V)
is amended by striking “January 1, 2033” and inserting “January 1, 2026”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to
facilities the construction of which begins after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112014.  Phase-out and restrictions on advanced manufacturing production
credit.

(a) Phase-out.—[Section
45X(b)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45X)
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (B)—

(A) in clause (ii), by adding “and” at the end,

(B) in clause (iii), by striking “during calendar year 2032, 25 percent,” and
inserting “after December 31, 2031, 0 percent.”, and

(C) by striking clause (iv), and

(2) by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting the following:

“(C) TERMINATION FOR WIND ENERGY COMPONENTS.—This section shall not apply to
wind energy components sold after December 31, 2027.”.

(b) Restrictions relating to prohibited foreign entities.—[Section
45X](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=45X) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (c)(1), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) MATERIAL ASSISTANCE FROM PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—In the case of
taxable years beginning after the date which is 2 years after the date of
enactment of this subparagraph, the term ‘eligible component’ shall not
include any property which—

“(i) includes any material assistance from a prohibited foreign entity (as
defined in section 7701(a)(52)), or

“(ii) is produced subject to a licensing agreement with a prohibited foreign
entity (as defined in section 7701(a)(51)) for which the value of such
agreement is in excess of $1,000,000.”, and

(2) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(5) RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—No credit determined under subsection (a) shall be allowed
under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the date of enactment of
this paragraph if the taxpayer is a specified foreign entity (as defined in
section 7701(a)(51)(B)).

“(B) OTHER PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—No credit determined under subsection
(a) shall be allowed under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the
date which is 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph if the
taxpayer is a foreign-influenced entity (as defined in section
7701(a)(51)(D)).

“(C) PAYMENTS TO PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—If, for any taxable year beginning after the date that is 2
years after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, a taxpayer is
described in clause (ii) for such taxable year with respect to any eligible
component category, no credit shall be determined under subsection (a) for
eligible components in such eligible component category for such taxable year.

“(ii) TAXPAYER DESCRIBED.—A taxpayer is described in this clause for a taxable
year with respect to any eligible component category if such taxpayer—

“(I) makes a payment of dividends, interest, compensation for services,
rentals or royalties, guarantees or any other fixed, determinable, annual, or
periodic amount to a prohibited foreign entity (as defined in section
7701(a)(51)) in an amount which is equal to or greater than 5 percent of the
total of such payments made by such taxpayer during such taxable year which
are related to the production of eligible components included within such
eligible component category, or

“(II) makes payments described in subclause (I) to more than 1 prohibited
foreign entity (as so defined) in an amount which, in the aggregate, is equal
to or greater than 15 percent of such payments made by such taxpayer during
such taxable year which are related to the production of eligible components
included within such eligible component category.

“(iii) ELIGIBLE COMPONENT CATEGORY.—For purposes of this subparagraph, the
term ‘eligible component category’ means eligible components which are
included within each respective clause under subsection (c)(1)(A).”.

(c) Repeal of transferability.—Section 6418, as amended by sections 112010,
112011, and 112012 is amended—

(1) in subsection (f)(1)—

(A) in subparagraph (A)—

(i) by striking clause (vi), and

(ii) by redesignating clauses (iv), (v), (vii), (ix), (x), and (xi) as clauses
(iii), (iv), (v), (vi), (vii), and (viii), respectively, and

(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking “clause (ii) or (v)” and inserting
“clause (ii) or (iv)”, and

(2) in subsection (g)(3), by striking “clause (ix) or (x)” and inserting
“clause (vi) or (vii)”.

(d) Effective dates.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amendments made by
this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of
enactment of this Act.

(2) REPEAL OF TRANSFERABILITY.—The amendments made by subsection (c) shall
apply to components sold after December 31, 2027.

SEC. 112015.  Phase-out of credit for certain energy property.

(a) Phase-out.—[Section
48(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=48) is
amended—

(1) in paragraph (3)(vii), by striking “the construction of which begins
before January 1, 2035” and inserting “the construction of which begins before
January 1, 2032”, and

(2) by striking paragraph (7) and inserting the following new paragraph:

“(7) PHASE-OUT FOR CERTAIN ENERGY PROPERTY.—In the case of any energy property
described in clause (vii) of paragraph (3)(A), the energy percentage
determined under paragraph (2) shall be equal to—

“(A) in the case of any property the construction of which begins before
January 1, 2030, and which is placed in service after December 31, 2021, 6
percent,

“(B) in the case of any property the construction of which begins after
December 31, 2029, and before January 1, 2031, 5.2 percent, and

“(C) in the case of any property the construction of which begins after
December 31, 2030, and before January 1, 2032, 4.4 percent.”.

(b) Restrictions relating to prohibited foreign entities.—[Section
48(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=48) is
amended by redesignating paragraph (16) as paragraph (17) and by inserting
after paragraph (15) the following new paragraph:

“(16) RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—No credit determined under this subsection for energy
property described in paragraph (3)(A)(vii) shall be allowed under section 38
for any taxable year beginning after the date of enactment of this paragraph
if the taxpayer is a specified foreign entity (as defined in section
7701(a)(51)(B)).

“(B) OTHER PROHIBITED FOREIGN ENTITIES.—No credit determined under this
subsection for energy property described in paragraph (3)(A)(vii) shall be
allowed under section 38 for any taxable year beginning after the date which
is 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph if the taxpayer is a
foreign-influenced entity (as defined in section 7701(a)(51)(D)).”.

(c) Repeal of transferability.—Section 6418(f)(1)(A)(iii), as redesignated by
[section
112014,](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=112014)
is amended by inserting “(except so much of the credit as is determined under
paragraph (3)(A)(vii) of such section)” after “section 48”.

(d) Effective dates.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amendments made by
this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the
enactment of this Act.

(2) REPEAL OF TRANSFERABILITY.—The amendments made by subsection (c) shall
apply to property the construction of which begins after the date that is 2
years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 112016.  Income from hydrogen storage, carbon capture added to qualifying
income of certain publicly traded partnerships treated as corporations.

(a) In general.—[Section
7704(d)(1)(E)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=7704)
is amended—

(1) by striking “income and gains derived from the exploration” and inserting
“income and gains derived from—

“(i) the exploration”,

(2) by inserting “or” before “industrial source”, and

(3) by striking “the transportation or storage” and all that follows and
inserting the following:

“(ii) the transportation or storage of—

“(I) any fuel described in subsection (b), (c), (d), (e), or (k) of section
6426, or any alcohol fuel defined in section 6426(b)(4)(A) or any biodiesel
fuel as defined in section 40A(d)(1) or sustainable aviation fuel as defined
in section 40B(d)(1), or

“(II) liquified hydrogen or compressed hydrogen, or

“(iii) in the case of a qualified facility (as defined in section 45Q(d),
without regard to any date by which construction of the facility is required
to begin) not less than 50 percent of the total carbon oxide production of
which is qualified carbon oxide (as defined in section 45Q(c))—

“(I) the generation, availability for such generation, or storage of electric
power at such facility, or

“(II) the capture of carbon dioxide by such facility,”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112017.  Limitation on amortization of certain sports franchises.

(a) In general.—[Section
197](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=197) is
amended by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h) and by inserting
after subsection (f) the following new subsection:

“(g) Limitation on amortization of certain sports franchises.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a specified sports franchise intangible,
subsection (a) shall be applied by substituting ‘50 percent of the adjusted
basis’ for ‘the adjusted basis’.

“(2) SPECIFIED SPORTS FRANCHISE INTANGIBLE.—For purposes of this subsection,
the term ‘specified sports franchise intangible’ means any amortizable section
197 intangible which is—

“(A) a franchise to engage in professional football, basketball, baseball,
hockey, soccer, or other professional sport, or

“(B) acquired in connection with such a franchise.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
property acquired after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 112018. Limitation on individual deductions for certain State and local
taxes, etc.

(a) In general.—[Section
275](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=275) is
amended by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c) and by inserting
after subsection (a) the following new subsection:

“(b) Limitation on individual deductions for certain State and local taxes,
etc.—

“(1) LIMITATION.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of an individual, no deduction shall be allowed
for—

“(i) any disallowed foreign real property taxes, and

“(ii) any specified taxes to the extent that such taxes for such taxable year
in the aggregate exceed—

“(I) half the dollar amount in effect under subclause (II), in the case of a
married individual filing a separate return, and

“(II) $40,400, in the case of any other taxpayer.

“(B) PHASEDOWN BASED ON MODIFIED ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (ii), the limitation otherwise
in effect under subparagraph (A)(ii) shall be reduced by 30 percent of the
excess (if any) of the taxpayer’s modified adjusted gross income over—

“(I) half the dollar amount in effect under subclause (II), in the case of a
married individual filing a separate return, and

“(II) $505,000, in the case of any other taxpayer.

“(ii) LIMITATION ON REDUCTION.—The reduction under clause (i) shall not result
in—

“(I) the limitation in effect under subparagraph (A)(ii)(I) being less than
$5,000, or

“(II) the limitation in effect under subparagraph (A)(ii)(II) being less than
$10,000.

“(C) MODIFIED ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term
‘modified adjusted gross income’ means adjusted gross income increased by any
amount excluded from gross income under section 911, 931, or 933.

“(D) ADJUSTMENT OF CERTAIN DOLLAR AMOUNTS.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any taxable year beginning after December 31,
2026, and before January 1, 2034, the dollar amount in effect under
subparagraph (A)(ii)(II), and the dollar amount in effect under subparagraph
(B)(i)(II), shall each be equal to 101 percent of such dollar amount as in
effect for taxable years beginning in the preceding taxable year.

“(ii) MAINTENANCE OF INCREASE THEREAFTER.—In the case of any taxable year
beginning after December 31, 2033, the dollar amounts referred to in clause
(i) shall be equal to such dollar amounts as in effect for taxable years
beginning in 2033.

“(2) DISALLOWED FOREIGN REAL PROPERTY TAX.—For purposes of this subsection,
the term ‘disallowed foreign real property tax’ means any tax which—

“(A) is a foreign real property tax described in section 164(a)(1) or
216(a)(1), and

“(B) is not an excepted tax.

“(3) SPECIFIED TAX.—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘specified tax’
means—

“(A) any tax which—

“(i) is described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 164(a) or section
216(a)(1), or is taken into account under section 164(b)(5), and

“(ii) is not an excepted tax or a disallowed foreign real property tax, and

“(B) any substitute payment.

“(4) EXCEPTED TAX.—For purposes of this subsection—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘excepted tax’ means—

“(i) any foreign tax described in section 164(a)(3),

“(ii) any tax described in section 164(a)(3) which is paid or accrued by a
qualifying entity with respect to carrying on a qualified trade or business
(as defined in section 199A(d), without regard to section 199A(b)(3)), and

“(iii) any tax described in paragraph (1) or (2) of section 164(a), or section
216(a)(1), which is paid or accrued in carrying on a trade or business or an
activity described in section 212.

“(B) QUALIFYING ENTITY.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term ‘qualifying
entity’ means any partnership or S corporation with gross receipts for the
taxable year (within the meaning of section 448(c)) if at least 75 percent of
such gross receipts are derived in a qualified trade or business (as defined
in section 199A(d), without regard to section 199A(b)(3)). For purposes of the
preceding sentence, the gross receipts of all trades or businesses which are
under common control (within the meaning of section 52(b)) with any trade or
business of the partnership or S corporation shall be taken into account as
gross receipts of the entity.

“(5) SUBSTITUTE PAYMENT.—For purposes of this subsection—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘substitute payment’ means any amount (other than a
tax described in paragraph (3)(A) or (4)(A)(ii)) paid, incurred, or accrued to
any entity referred to in section 164(b)(2) if, under the laws of one or more
entities referred to in section 164(b)(2), one or more persons would (if the
assumptions described in subparagraphs (B) and (C) applied) be entitled to
specified tax benefits the aggregate dollar value of which equals or exceeds
25 percent of such amount.

“(B) ASSUMPTION REGARDING DOLLAR VALUE OF TAX BENEFITS.—The assumption
described in this subparagraph is that the dollar value of a specified tax
benefit is—

“(i) in the case of a credit or refund, the amount of such credit or refund,

“(ii) in the case of a deduction or exclusion, 15 percent of the amount of
such deduction or exclusion, and

“(iii) in any other case, an amount determined in such manner as the Secretary
may provide consistent with the principles of clauses (i) and (ii).

“(C) ASSUMPTION REGARDING STATUS OF PARTNERS OR SHAREHOLDERS.—The assumption
described in this subparagraph is, in the case of any amount referred to in
subparagraph (A) which is paid, incurred, or accrued by a partnership or S
corporation, that all of the partners or shareholders of such partnership or S
corporation, respectively, are individuals who are residents of the
jurisdiction of the entity or entities providing the specified tax benefits
(and possess such other characteristics as the laws of such entities may
require for entitlement to such benefits).

“(D) SPECIFIED TAX BENEFIT.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term
‘specified tax benefit’ means any benefit which—

“(i) is determined with respect to the amount referred to in subparagraph (A),
and

“(ii) is allowed against, or determined by reference to, a tax described in
paragraph (3)(A) or section 164(b)(5).

“(E) EXCEPTION FOR NON-DEDUCTIBLE PAYMENTS.—To the extent that a deduction for
an amount described in subparagraph (A) is not allowed under this chapter
(determined without regard to this subsection, section 170(b)(1), section
703(a), section 704(d), and section 1363(b)), the term ‘substitute payment’
shall not include such amount.

“(F) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN WITHHOLDING TAXES.—To the extent provided in
regulations issued by the Secretary, the term ‘substitute payment’ shall not
include an amount withheld on behalf of another person if all of such amount
is included in the gross income of such person (determined under this
chapter).

“(6) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall issue such regulations or other guidance
as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this
subsection, including regulations or other guidance—

“(A) to treat as a tax described in paragraph (3) of section 164(a) any tax
that is, in substance, based on general tax principles, described in such
paragraph,

“(B) to treat as a substitute payment any amount that, in substance,
substitutes for a specified tax,

“(C) to provide for the proper allocation, for purposes of paragraph
(4)(A)(ii), of taxes described in section 164(a)(3) between trades or business
described in section 199A(d)(1) and trades or business not so described, and

“(D) to otherwise prevent the avoidance of the purposes of this subsection.”.

(b) State and local income taxes paid by partnerships and S corporations taken
into account separately by partners and shareholders.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
702(a)(6)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=702)
is amended to read as follows:

“(6) (A) taxes, described in section 901, paid or accrued to foreign
countries,

“(B) taxes, described in section 901, paid or accrued to possessions of the
United States,

“(C) specified taxes (within the meaning of section 275(b)), other than taxes
described in subparagraph (B), and

“(D) taxes described in section 275(b)(2),”.

(2) TREATMENT OF SUBSTITUTE PAYMENTS.—[Section
702](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=702) is
amended by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e) and by inserting
after subsection (c) the following new subsection:

“(d) Treatment of substitute payments.—Any substitute payment (as defined in
section 275(b)(5)) shall be taken into account under subsection (a)(6)(C) and
not under any other paragraph of subsection (a).”.

(3) DISALLOWANCE OF DEDUCTION TO PARTNERSHIPS.—[Section
703(a)(2)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=703)
is amended to read as follows:

“(B) any deduction under this chapter with respect to taxes or payments
described in section 702(a)(6),”.

(4) S CORPORATIONS.—For corresponding provisions related to S corporations
which apply by reason of the amendments made by paragraphs (1) through (3),
see sections 1366(a)(1) and 1363(b)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

(5) ALLOWABLE SALT DEDUCTIONS TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT FOR PURPOSES OF LIMITATION ON
PARTNERSHIP LOSSES.—[Section
704(d)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=704)
is amended by striking subparagraph (A), by redesignating subparagraph (B) as
subparagraph (C), and by inserting before subparagraph (C) (as so
redesignated) the following new subparagraphs:

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In determining the amount of any loss under paragraph (1),
there shall be taken into account—

“(i) the partner’s distributive share of amounts described in paragraphs (4)
and (6)(A) of section 702(a),

“(ii) if the taxpayer chooses to take to any extent the benefits of section
901, the partner’s distributive share of amounts described in section
702(a)(6)(B), and

“(iii) the amount by which the deductions allowed under this chapter
(determined without regard to this subsection) to the partner would decrease
if the partner’s distributive share of amounts described in section
702(a)(6)(C) were not taken into account.

“(B) TREATMENT OF POSSESSION TAXES IN EVENT PARTNER DOES NOT ELECT THE FOREIGN
TAX CREDIT.—In the case of a taxpayer not described in subparagraph (A)(ii),
subparagraph (A)(iii) shall be applied by substituting ‘subparagraphs (B) and
(C) of section 702(a)(6)’ for ‘section 702(a)(6)(C)’.”.

(6) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—[Section
56(b)(1)(A)(ii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=56)
is amended by inserting “or for any substitute payment (as defined in section
275(b)(5))” before the period at the end.

(c) Addition to tax for State and local tax allocation mismatch.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Part I of subchapter A of [chapter
68](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter68-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:

“SEC. 6659.  State and local tax allocation mismatch.

“(a) In general.—In the case of any covered individual, there shall be added
to the tax imposed under section 1 for the taxable year an amount equal to the
product of—

“(1) the highest rate of tax in effect under such section for such taxable
year, multiplied by

“(2) the sum of the State and local tax allocation mismatches for such taxable
year with respect to each partnership specified tax payment with respect to
which such individual is a covered individual.

“(b) Covered individual.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘covered
individual’ means, with respect to any partnership specified tax payment, any
individual (or estate or trust) who—

“(1) is entitled (directly or indirectly) to one or more specified tax
benefits with respect to such payment, and

“(2) takes into account (directly or indirectly) any item of income, gain,
deduction, loss, or credit of the partnership which made such payment.

“(c) State and local tax allocation mismatch.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘State and local tax allocation mismatch’ means,
with respect to any partnership specified tax payment, the excess (if any) of—

“(A) the aggregate dollar value of the specified tax benefits of the covered
individual with respect to such payment, over

“(B) the amount of such payment taken into account by such individual under
section 702(a) (without regard to sections 275(b) and 704(d)).

“(2) TAXABLE YEAR OF INDIVIDUAL IN WHICH MISMATCH TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT.—In the
case of any partnership specified tax payment paid, incurred, or accrued in
any taxable year of the partnership, the State and local tax allocation
mismatch determined under paragraph (1) with respect to such payment shall be
taken into account under subsection (a) by the covered individual for the
taxable year of such individual in which such individual takes into account
the items referred to in subsection (b)(2) which are determined with respect
to such partnership taxable year.

“(d) Determination of dollar value of specified tax benefits.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Except in the case of a covered individual who elects the
application of paragraph (3) for any taxable year, the dollar value of any
specified tax benefit shall be the sum of—

“(A) the aggregate increase in tax liability (and reduction in credit or
refund) for taxes described in section 275(b)(3)(A) for the taxable year and
all prior taxable years that would result if such specified tax benefit were
not taken into account with respect to such taxes, plus

“(B) the deemed value of any carryforward of such specified tax benefit
(including any tax attribute derived from such benefit) to any subsequent
taxable year.

“(2) DEEMED VALUE OF CARRYFORWARDS.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the deemed
value of any carryforward is—

“(A) in the case of a credit or refund, the amount of such credit or refund,

“(B) in the case of a deduction or exclusion, the product of—

“(i) the highest rate of tax which may be imposed on individuals under the tax
referred to in subsection (e)(3)(B) with respect to the specified tax benefit,
multiplied by

“(ii) the amount of such deduction or exclusion, and

“(C) in any other case, an amount determined in such manner as the Secretary
may provide consistent with the principles of subparagraphs (A) and (B).

“(3) ELECTION OF SIMPLIFIED METHOD.—In the case of a covered individual who
elects the application of this paragraph for any taxable year, the dollar
value of any specified tax benefit shall be determined under the assumptions
described in section 275(b)(5)(B).

“(e) Other definitions and special rules.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) PARTNERSHIP SPECIFIED TAX PAYMENT.—The term ‘partnership specified tax
payment’ means any specified tax paid, incurred, or accrued by a partnership.

“(2) SPECIFIED TAX.—The term ‘specified tax’ has the meaning given such term
by section 275(b)(3).

“(3) SPECIFIED TAX BENEFIT.—The term ‘specified tax benefit’ means any benefit
which—

“(A) is determined with respect to a partnership specified tax payment, and

“(B) is allowed against, or determined by reference to, a tax described in
section 275(b)(3)(A).

“(f) Regulations.—The Secretary shall issue such regulations or other guidance
as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section,
including regulations or other guidance preventing avoidance of the addition
to tax prescribed by this section through partnership allocations that achieve
similar tax reductions as a State and local tax allocation mismatch.”.

(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections for part I of subchapter A of
[chapter 68](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter68-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:

  
“Sec. 6659. State and local tax allocation mismatch.”.

(d) Limitation on capitalization of specified taxes.—[Section
275](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=275), as
amended by the preceding provisions of this section, is amended by
redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d) and by inserting after
subsection (b) the following new subsection:

“(c) Limitations on capitalization of specified taxes.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, in the case of an individual, specified taxes
(as defined in subsection (b)) shall not be treated as chargeable to capital
account.”.

(e) Reporting by partnerships and S corporations with respect to specified
service trade or business income.—

(1) PARTNERSHIPS.—[Section
6031](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6031) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(g) Specified service trade or business income.—Returns required under
subsection (a), and copies required to be furnished under subsection (b),
shall include a statement of whether or not the partnership had any gross
receipts (within the meaning of section 448(c)) from a trade or business
described in subsection 199A(d)(2).”.

(2) S CORPORATIONS.—[Section
6037](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6037) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(d) Specified service trade or business income.—Returns required under
subsection (a), and copies required to be furnished under subsection (b),
shall include a statement of whether or not the S corporation had any gross
receipts (within the meaning of section 448(c)) from a trade or business
described in subsection 199A(d)(2).”.

(f) Temporary increase for 2025.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
164(b)(6)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=164)
is amended by striking “$10,000 ($5,000 in the case of a married individual
filing a separate return)” and inserting “applicable limitation amount”.

(2) APPLICABLE LIMITATION AMOUNT.—[Section
164(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=164) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(7) APPLICABLE LIMITATION AMOUNT.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of paragraph (6), the term ‘applicable
limitation amount’ means—

“(i) $20,000, in the case of a married individual filing a separate return,
and

“(ii) $40,000, in the case of any other taxpayer.

“(B) PHASEDOWN BASED ON MODIFIED ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (ii), the $20,000 amount in
subparagraph (A)(i) and the $40,000 amount in subparagraph (A)(ii) shall each
be reduced by 30 percent of the excess (if any) of the taxpayer’s modified
adjusted gross income over—

“(I) $250,000, in the case of a married individual filing a separate return,
and

“(II) $500,000, in the case of any other taxpayer.

“(ii) LIMITATION ON REDUCTION.—The reduction under clause (i) shall not result
in—

“(I) the dollar amount in effect under subparagraph (A)(i) being less than
$5,000, or

“(II) the dollar amount in effect under subparagraph (A)(ii) being less than
$10,000.

“(C) MODIFIED ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term
‘modified adjusted gross income’ means adjusted gross income increased by any
amount excluded from gross income under section 911, 931, or 933.”.

(3) REPEAL AFTER 2025.—Section 164(b), as amended by paragraphs (1) and (2),
is amended by striking paragraphs (6) and (7).

(g) Effective date.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the
amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after
December 31, 2025.

(2) TEMPORARY INCREASE FOR 2025.—The amendments made by paragraphs (1) and (2)
of subsection (f) shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31,
2024.

SEC. 112019. Excessive employee remuneration from controlled group members and
allocation of deduction.

(a) Application of aggregation rules.—[Section
162(m)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=162) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(7) REMUNERATION FROM CONTROLLED GROUP MEMBERS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any publicly held corporation which is a
member of a controlled group—

“(i) paragraph (1) shall be applied by substituting ‘specified covered
employee’ for ‘covered employee’, and

“(ii) if any person which is a member of such controlled group (other than
such publicly held corporation) provides applicable employee remuneration to
an individual who is a specified covered employee of such controlled group and
the aggregate amount described in subparagraph (B)(ii) with respect to such
specified covered employee exceeds $1,000,000—

“(I) paragraph (1) shall apply to such person with respect to such
remuneration, and

“(II) paragraph (1) shall apply to such publicly held corporation and to each
such related person by substituting ‘the allocable limitation amount’ for
‘$1,000,000’.

“(B) ALLOCABLE LIMITATION AMOUNT.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term
‘allocable limitation amount’ means, with respect to any member of the
controlled group referred to in subparagraph (A) with respect to any specified
covered employee of such controlled group, the amount which bears the same
ratio to $1,000,000 as—

“(i) the amount of applicable employee remuneration provided by such member
with respect to such specified covered employee, bears to

“(ii) the aggregate amount of applicable employee remuneration provided by all
such members with respect to such specified covered employee.

“(C) SPECIFIED COVERED EMPLOYEE.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term
‘specified covered employee’ means, with respect to any controlled group—

“(i) any employee described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (D) of paragraph (3),
with respect to the publicly held corporation which is a member of such
controlled group, and

“(ii) any employee who would be described in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (3)
if such subparagraph were applied by taking into account the employees of all
members of the controlled group.

“(D) CONTROLLED GROUP.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘controlled
group’ means any group treated as a single employer under subsection (b), (c),
(m), or (o) of section 414.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112020. Expanding application of tax on excess compensation within tax-
exempt organizations.

(a) In general.—[Section
4960(c)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=4960)
is amended to read as follows:

“(2) COVERED EMPLOYEE.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘covered
employee’ means any employee (including any former employee) of an applicable
tax-exempt organization.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112021.  Modification of excise tax on investment income of certain
private colleges and universities.

(a) In general.—[Section
4968](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=4968) is
amended to read as follows:

“SEC. 4968.  Excise tax based on investment income of private colleges and
universities.

“(a) Tax imposed.—There is hereby imposed on each applicable educational
institution for the taxable year a tax equal to the applicable percentage of
the net investment income of such institution for the taxable year.

“(b) Applicable percentage.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘applicable
percentage’ means—

“(1) 1.4 percent in the case of an institution with a student adjusted
endowment in excess of $500,000, and not in excess of $750,000,

“(2) 7 percent in the case of an institution with a student adjusted endowment
in excess of $750,000, and not in excess of $1,250,000,

“(3) 14 percent in the case of an institution with a student adjusted
endowment in excess of $1,250,000, and not in excess of $2,000,000, and

“(4) 21 percent in the case of an institution with a student adjusted
endowment in excess of $2,000,000.

“(c) Applicable educational institution.—For purposes of this subchapter—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘applicable educational institution’ means an
eligible educational institution (as defined in section 25A(f)(2))—

“(A) which had at least 500 tuition-paying students during the preceding
taxable year,

“(B) more than 50 percent of the tuition-paying students of which are located
in the United States,

“(C) which is not—

“(i) described in the first sentence of section 511(a)(2)(B) (relating to
State colleges and universities), or

“(ii) a qualified religious institution, and

“(D) the student adjusted endowment of which is at least $500,000.

“(2) QUALIFIED RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION.—For purposes of this subsection, the
term ‘qualified religious institution’ means any institution—

“(A) established after July 4, 1776,

“(B) that was established by or in association with and has continuously
maintained an affiliation with an organization described in section
170(b)(1)(A)(i), and

“(C) which maintains a published institutional mission that is approved by the
governing body of such institution and that includes, refers to, or is
predicated upon religious tenets, beliefs, or teachings.

“(d) Student adjusted endowment.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘student adjusted endowment’ means, with respect to
any institution for any taxable year—

“(A) the aggregate fair market value of the assets of such institution
(determined as of the end of the preceding taxable year), other than those
assets which are used directly in carrying out the institution’s exempt
purpose, divided by

“(B) the number of eligible students of such institution.

“(2) ELIGIBLE STUDENT.—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘eligible
student’ means a student of the institution that meets the student eligibility
requirements under section 484(a)(5) of the Higher Education Act of 1965.

“(e) Determination of number of students.—For purposes of subsections (c)(1)
and (d), the number of students of an institution (including for purposes of
determining the number of students at a particular location) shall be based on
the daily average number of full-time students attending such institution
(with part-time students taken into account on a full-time student equivalent
basis).

“(f) Net investment income.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Net investment income shall be determined under rules similar
to the rules of section 4940(c).

“(2) OVERRIDE OF CERTAIN REGULATORY EXCEPTIONS.—

“(A) STUDENT LOAN INTEREST.—Net investment income shall be determined by
taking into account any interest income from a student loan made by the
applicable educational institution (or any related organization) as gross
investment income.

“(B) FEDERALLY-SUBSIDIZED ROYALTY INCOME.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Net investment income shall be determined by taking into
account any Federally-subsidized royalty income as gross investment income.

“(ii) FEDERALLY-SUBSIDIZED ROYALTY INCOME.—For purposes of this subparagraph—

“(I) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘Federally-subsidized royalty income’ means any
otherwise-regulatory-exempt royalty income if any Federal funds were used in
the research, development, or creation of the patent, copyright, or other
intellectual or intangible property from which such royalty income is derived.

“(II) OTHERWISE-REGULATORY-EXEMPT ROYALTY INCOME.—For purposes of this
subparagraph, the term ‘otherwise-regulatory-exempt royalty income’ means
royalty income which (but for this subparagraph) would not be taken into
account as gross investment income by reason of being derived from patents,
copyrights, or other intellectual or intangible property which resulted from
the work of students or faculty members in their capacities as such with the
applicable educational institution.

“(III) FEDERAL FUNDS.—The term ‘Federal funds’ includes any grant made by, and
any payment made under any contract with, any Federal agency to the applicable
educational institution, any related organization, or any student or faculty
member referred to in subclause (II).

“(g) Assets and net investment income of related organizations.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of subsections (d) and (f), assets and net
investment income of any related organization with respect to an educational
institution shall be treated as assets and net investment income,
respectively, of the educational institution, except that—

“(A) no such amount shall be taken into account with respect to more than 1
educational institution, and

“(B) unless such organization is controlled by such institution or is
described in section 509(a)(3) with respect to such institution for the
taxable year, assets and net investment income which are not intended or
available for the use or benefit of the educational institution shall not be
taken into account.

“(2) RELATED ORGANIZATION.—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘related
organization’ means, with respect to an educational institution, any
organization which—

“(A) controls, or is controlled by, such institution,

“(B) is controlled by 1 or more persons which also control such institution,
or

“(C) is a supported organization (as defined in section 509(f)(3)), or an
organization described in section 509(a)(3), during the taxable year with
respect to such institution.

“(h) Regulations.—The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations or other
guidance as may be necessary to prevent avoidance of the tax under this
section, including regulations or other guidance to prevent avoidance of such
tax through the restructuring of endowment funds or other arrangements
designed to reduce or eliminate the value of net investment income or assets
subject to the tax imposed by this section.”.

(b) Requirement to report certain information with respect to application of
excise tax based on investment income of private colleges and
universities.—[Section
6033](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6033) is
amended by redesignating subsection (o) as subsection (p) and by inserting
after subsection (n) the following new subsection:

“(o) Requirement to report certain information with respect to excise tax
based on investment income of private colleges and universities.—Each
applicable educational institution described in section 4968(c) which is
subject to the requirements of subsection (a) shall include on the return
required under subsection (a)—

“(1) the number of eligible students taken into account under section
4968(c)(1)(D), and

“(2) the number of students of such institution (determined after application
of section 4968(e)).”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112022. Increase in rate of tax on net investment income of certain
private foundations.

(a) In general.—[Section
4940(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=4940) is
amended by striking “1.39 percent” and inserting “the applicable percentage”.

(b) Applicable percentage.—[Section
4940(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=4940) is
amended—

(1) by striking “There is hereby” and inserting the following:

“(1) IMPOSITION OF TAX.—There is hereby”, and

(2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:

“(2) APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘applicable percentage’ means, with respect to any taxable year—

“(A) in the case of a private foundation with assets of less than $50,000,000,
1.39 percent,

“(B) in the case of a private foundation with assets of at least $50,000,000,
and less than $250,000,000, 2.78 percent,

“(C) in the case of a private foundation with assets of at least $250,000,000,
and less than $5,000,000,000, 5 percent, and

“(D) in the case of a private foundation with assets of at least
$5,000,000,000, 10 percent.

“(3) ASSETS.—For purposes of this subsection, the assets of any private
foundation shall be determined with respect to any taxable year as being the
aggregate fair market value of all assets of such private foundation, as
determined as of the close of such taxable year. The preceding sentence shall
be applied without reduction for any liabilities.

“(4) AGGREGATION.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this subsection and subsection (c), assets
and net investment income of any related organization with respect to a
private foundation shall be treated as assets and net investment income,
respectively, of the private foundation, except that—

“(i) no such amount shall be taken into account with respect to more than 1
private foundation, and

“(ii) unless such organization is controlled by such private foundation,
assets and net investment income which are not intended or available for the
use or benefit of the private foundation shall not be taken into account.

“(B) RELATED ORGANIZATION.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘related
organization’ means, with respect to a private foundation, any organization
which—

“(i) controls, or is controlled by, such private foundation, or

“(ii) is controlled by 1 or more persons which also control such private
foundation.”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 112023.  Certain purchases of employee-owned stock disregarded for
purposes of foundation tax on excess business holdings.

(a) In general.—[Section
4943(c)(4)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=4943)
is amended by adding at the end the following new clauses:

“(v) For purposes of clause (i), subparagraph (D), and paragraph (2), any
voting stock which—

“(I) is not readily tradable on an established securities market,

“(II) is purchased by the business enterprise on or after January 1, 2020,
from an employee stock ownership plan (as defined in section 4975(e)(7)) in
which employees of such business enterprise participate, in connection with a
distribution from such plan, and

“(III) is held by the business enterprise as treasury stock, cancelled, or
retired,

shall be treated as outstanding voting stock, but only to the extent so
treating such stock would not result in permitted holdings exceeding 49
percent (determined without regard to this clause). The preceding sentence
shall not apply with respect to the purchase of stock from a plan during the
10-year period beginning on the date the plan is established.

“(vi) Section 4943(c)(4)(A)(ii) shall not apply with respect to any decrease
in the percentage of holdings in a business enterprise by reason of the
application of clause (v).”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable
years ending after the date of the enactment of this Act and to purchases by a
business enterprise of voting stock in taxable years beginning after December
31, 2019.

SEC. 112024. Unrelated business taxable income increased by amount of certain
fringe benefit expenses for which deduction is disallowed.

(a) In general.—[Section
512(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=512) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(7) INCREASE IN UNRELATED BUSINESS TAXABLE INCOME BY DISALLOWED FRINGE.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Unrelated business taxable income of an organization shall be
increased by any amount—

“(i) which is paid or incurred by such organization for any qualified
transportation fringe (as defined in section 132(f)) or any parking facility
used in connection with qualified parking (as defined in section
132(f)(5)(C)),

“(ii) which is not directly connected with an unrelated trade or business
which is regularly carried on by the organization, and

“(iii) for which a deduction is not allowable under this chapter by reason of
section 274.

“(B) EXCEPTION FOR CHURCH ORGANIZATIONS.—Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to—

“(i) any organization to which section 6033(a)(1) does not apply by reason of
clause (i) or (iii) of section 6033(a)(3)(A), and

“(ii) any church-affiliated organization described in section 501(c) which is
not required to file an annual return under section 6033(a)(1) by reason of
section 6033(a)(3)(B).

“(C) TREATMENT AS INCOME FROM SEPARATE TRADE OR BUSINESS.—For purposes of
paragraph (6), any increase under subparagraph (A) shall be treated as
unrelated business taxable income with respect to an unrelated trade or
business separate from any other unrelated trade or business of the
organization.

“(D) REGULATIONS.— The Secretary shall issue such regulations or other
guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this
paragraph, including regulations or other guidance providing for the
appropriate allocation of costs with respect to facilities used for parking.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to amounts
paid or incurred after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112025. Exclusion of research income limited to publicly available
research.

(a) In general.—[Section
512(b)(9)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=512)
is amended by striking “from research” and inserting “from such research”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to amounts
received or accrued after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112026.  Limitation on excess business losses of noncorporate taxpayers.

(a) Rule made permanent.—[Section
461(l)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=461)
is amended by striking “and before January 1, 2029,” each place it appears.

(b) Excess business loss determined on a cumulative basis with respect to
periods after 2024.—[Section
461(l)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=461)
is amended to read as follows:

“(2) DISALLOWED LOSS CARRYOVER.—Any loss disallowed under paragraph (1) for
any taxable year shall be treated for purposes of this title as a loss
attributable to a trade or business of the taxpayer (other than a trade or
business described in the last sentence of paragraph (3)(A)) arising in the
subsequent taxable year. To the extent provided by the Secretary, for purposes
of applying section 1341 and subtitle F, a loss treated as arising under the
preceding sentence shall be treated (to the extent not inconsistent with the
purposes of this subsection) in a manner similar to the manner in which net
operating losses are treated for purposes of such provisions.”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to losses
arising (or treated as arising under [section
461(l)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=461)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by this section) in taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 112027.  1-percent floor on deduction of charitable contributions made by
corporations.

(a) In general.—[Section
170(b)(2)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=170)
is amended to read as follows:

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Any charitable contribution (other than any contribution to
which subparagraph (B) or subparagraph (C) applies or any contribution for
which a deduction is not allowable under this section without regard to this
paragraph) shall be allowed as a deduction under this subsection (a) only to
the extent that the aggregate of such contributions—

“(i) exceeds 1 percent of the taxpayer’s taxable income, and

“(ii) does not exceed 10 percent of the taxpayer’s taxable income.”.

(b) Application of carryforward.—[Section
170(d)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=170)
is amended to read as follows:

“(2) CORPORATIONS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Any charitable contribution taken into account under
subsection (b)(2)(A) for any taxable year which is not allowed as a deduction
by reason of clause (ii) thereof shall be taken into account as a charitable
contribution for the succeeding taxable year, except that, for purposes of
determining under this subparagraph whether such contribution is allowed in
such succeeding taxable year, contributions in such succeeding taxable year
(determined without regard to this paragraph) shall be taken into account
under subsection (b)(2)(A) before any contribution taken into account by
reason of this paragraph.

“(B) 5-YEAR CARRYFORWARD.—No charitable contribution may be carried forward
under subparagraph (A) to any taxable year following the fifth taxable year
after the taxable year in which the charitable contribution was first taken
into account. For purposes of the preceding sentence, contributions shall be
treated as allowed on a first-in first-out basis.

“(C) CONTRIBUTIONS DISALLOWED BY 1-PERCENT FLOOR CARRIED FORWARD ONLY FROM
YEARS IN WHICH 10 PERCENT LIMITATION IS EXCEEDED.—In the case of any taxable
year from which a charitable contribution is carried forward under
subparagraph (A) (determined without regard this subparagraph), subparagraph
(A) shall be applied by substituting ‘clause (i) or (ii)’ for ‘clause (ii)’.

“(D) SPECIAL RULE FOR NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYOVERS.—The amount of charitable
contributions carried forward under subparagraph (A) shall be reduced to the
extent that such carryfoward would (but for this subparagraph) reduce taxable
income (as computed for purposes of the second sentence of section 172(b)(2))
and increase a net operating loss carryover under section 172 to a succeeding
taxable year.”.

(c) Conforming amendments.—Subparagraph (B)(ii) and (C)(ii) of section
170(b)(2) are each amended by inserting “other than subparagraph (C) thereof”
after “subsection (d)(2)”.

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112028.  Enforcement of remedies against unfair foreign taxes.

(a) In general.—Subpart D of part II of subchapter N of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:

“SEC. 899.  Enforcement of remedies against unfair foreign taxes.

“(a) Increased rates of tax on foreign persons of discriminatory foreign
countries.—

“(1) TAXES OTHER THAN WITHHOLDING TAXES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any applicable person, each specified rate of
tax (or any rate of tax applicable in lieu of such statutory rate) shall be
increased by the applicable number of percentage points.

“(B) SPECIFIED RATE OF TAX.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term
‘specified rate of tax’ means—

“(i) the rates of tax specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 871(a),

“(ii) in the case of any applicable person to which section 871(b) applies,
each rate of tax in effect under section 1,

“(iii) the rate of tax specified in section 881(a),

“(iv) in the case of any applicable person to which section 882(a) applies,
the rate of tax specified in section 11(b),

“(v) the rate of tax specified in section 884(a), and

“(vi) the rate of tax specified in section 4948(a).

“(C) APPLICATION OF INCREASED RATES TO EFFECTIVELY CONNECTED INCOME OF
NONRESIDENT ALIEN INDIVIDUALS LIMITED TO GAINS ON UNITED STATES REAL PROPERTY
INTERESTS.—In the case of any individual to whom subparagraph (A) applies, the
tax imposed under section 1 on such individual (after application of
subparagraph (A)) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the excess of—

“(i) the tax which would be imposed under such section (after application of
subparagraph (A)) if FIRPTA items were not taken into account, over

“(ii) the tax which would be imposed under such section if FIRPTA items were
not taken into account, and subparagraph (A) did not apply.

For purposes of this clause, the term ‘FIRPTA items’ means gains and losses
taken into account under section 871(b)(1) by reason of section 897(a)(1)(A).

“(D) APPLICATION OF INCREASED RATES TO CERTAIN FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS.—In the
case of any applicable person described in subsection (b)(1)(A), section
892(a) shall not apply.

“(2) MODIFICATION OF BASE EROSION AND ANTI-ABUSE TAX.—In the case of any
corporation described in subsection (b)(1)(E) (applied by substituting
‘corporation’ for ‘foreign corporation’)—

“(A) such corporation shall be treated as described in subparagraphs (B) and
(C) of section 59A(e)(1) for purposes of determining whether such corporation
is an applicable taxpayer,

“(B) section 59A(b)(1) shall be applied by—

“(i) substituting ‘12.5 percent’ for ‘10.1 percent’ in subparagraph (A), and

“(ii) by treating the amount described in section 59A(b)(1)(B)(ii) as being
zero,

“(C) subsections (c)(2)(B), (c)(4)(B)(ii), and (d)(5) of section 59A shall not
apply, and

“(D) if any amount (other than the purchase price of depreciable or
amortizable property or inventory) would have been a base erosion payment
described in section 59A(d)(1) but for the fact that the taxpayer capitalizes
the amount, then solely for purposes of calculating the taxpayer’s base
erosion payments (within the meaning of section 59A(d)) and base erosion tax
benefits (within the meaning of section 59A(c)(2)), such amount shall be
treated as if it had been deducted rather than capitalized.

“(3) WITHHOLDING TAXES.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any payment to an applicable person, each rate
of tax specified in section 1441(a) or 1442(a) (or any rate of tax applicable
in lieu of such statutory rate) shall be increased by the applicable number of
percentage points. The preceding sentence shall not apply to the 14 percent
rate of tax specified in section 1441(a).

“(B) DISPOSITION OF UNITED STATES REAL PROPERTY INTERESTS.—In the case of any
disposition of a United States real property interest (as defined in section
897(c)) by an applicable person, the rate of tax specified in section 1445(a)
(or any rate of tax applicable in lieu of such statutory rate) shall be
increased by the applicable number of percentage points.

“(C) OTHER DISPOSITIONS AND DISTRIBUTIONS RELATED TO UNITED STATES REAL
PROPERTY INTERESTS.—In the case of any disposition or distribution described
in any paragraph of section 1445(e), each rate of tax in such paragraph (or
any rate of tax applicable in lieu of such statutory rate) shall be increased
by the applicable number of percentage points if—

“(i) in the case of section 1445(e)(1), the foreign person referred to in
subparagraph (A) or (B) of such section is an applicable person,

“(ii) in the case of section 1445(e)(2), the foreign corporation referred to
in such section is an applicable person,

“(iii) in the case of section 1445(e)(3), the foreign shareholder referred to
in such section is an applicable person,

“(iv) in the case of section 1445(e)(4), the foreign person referred to in
such section is an applicable person,

“(v) in the case of section 1445(e)(5), the Secretary issues regulations or
other guidance providing for such increase, and

“(vi) in the case of section 1445(e)(6), the nonresident alien individual or
foreign corporation referred to in such section is an applicable person.

“(4) APPLICABLE NUMBER OF PERCENTAGE POINTS.—For purposes of this paragraph—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘applicable number of percentage points’ means, with
respect to any discriminatory foreign country—

“(i) with respect to the 1-year period beginning on the applicable date with
respect to such foreign country, 5 percentage points, and

“(ii) with respect to any period after the 1-year period to which clause (i)
applies, the sum of —

“(I) 5 percentage points, plus

“(II) an additional 5 percentage points for each annual anniversary of such
applicable date which has occurred before the beginning of such period.

“(B) CAP ON INCREASE.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the increase in any
rate under paragraph (1) or (3) shall not result in such rate exceeding the
amount of the statutory rate (determined without regard to any rate applicable
in lieu of such statutory rate) increased by 20 percentage points.

“(C) APPLICABLE DATE.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘applicable date’
means, with respect to any discriminatory foreign country, the first day of
the first calendar year beginning on or after the latest of—

“(i) 90 days after the date of enactment of this section,

“(ii) 180 days after the date of enactment of the unfair foreign tax that
causes such country to be treated as a discriminatory foreign country, or

“(iii) the first date that an unfair foreign tax of such country begins to
apply.

“(D) APPLICATION TO TAXABLE YEARS.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the
applicable number of percentage points is the applicable number of percentage
points in effect for the discriminatory foreign country during the taxpayer’s
taxable year. If more than one applicable number of percentage points is in
effect for the discriminatory foreign country during the taxpayer’s taxable
year, the applicable number of percentage points shall be determined by using
a weighted average rate based on each applicable number of percentage points
in effect during such taxable year and the number of days during which it was
in effect. For purposes of the prior sentence, the applicable number of
percentage points in effect for the discriminatory foreign country for the
period before the applicable date is treated as zero, and, if the taxpayer
ceases to be an applicable person during its taxable year, the applicable
number of percentage points in effect for the discriminatory foreign country
for the period after the taxpayer ceased to be an applicable person is treated
as zero.

“(E) APPLICATION TO WITHHOLDING TAXES.—For purposes of paragraph (3), the
applicable number of percentage points shall be determined with respect to the
date of the payment or disposition, as the case may be.

“(F) MULTIPLE DISCRIMINATORY FOREIGN COUNTRIES.—For purposes of paragraphs (1)
and (3), if, on any day, the taxpayer is an applicable person with respect to
more than one discriminatory foreign country, the highest applicable number of
percentage points in effect shall apply.

“(G) INCREASE NOT APPLICABLE TO NONDISCRIMINATORY FOREIGN COUNTRIES.—In the
case of any foreign country which is not a discriminatory foreign country, the
applicable number of percentage points is zero.

“(5) YEARS TO WHICH APPLICABLE.—

“(A) TAXABLE YEAR.—In the case of any person, paragraphs (1) and (2) shall
apply to each taxable year beginning—

“(i) after the later of—

“(I) 90 days after the date of enactment of this section,

“(II) 180 days after the date of enactment of the unfair foreign tax that
causes such country to be treated as a discriminatory foreign country, or

“(III) the first date that an unfair foreign tax of such country begins to
apply, and

“(ii) before the last date on which the discriminatory foreign country imposes
an unfair foreign tax.

“(B) WITHHOLDING.—In the case of any person, paragraph (3) shall apply to each
calendar year beginning during the period that such person is an applicable
person.

“(C) SAFE HARBOR FOR WITHHOLDING.—Paragraph (3) shall not apply—

“(i) in the case of any applicable person to which clause (ii) does not apply,
if the discriminatory foreign country with respect to which such person is an
applicable person is not listed by the Secretary as a discriminatory foreign
country, and

“(ii) in the case of any applicable person described in subparagraph (E) or
(F) of subsection (b)(1), if the discriminatory foreign country with respect
to which such person is an applicable person (and such country’s applicable
date) has been listed in such guidance for less than 90 days.

“(D) TEMPORARY SAFE HARBOR FOR WITHHOLDING AGENTS.—No penalties or interest
shall be imposed with respect to failures, before January 1, 2027, to deduct
or withhold any amounts by reason of paragraph (3) if the person required to
deduct or withhold such amounts demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
Secretary that such person made best efforts to comply with paragraph (3) in a
timely manner.

“(b) Applicable person.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided by the Secretary, the term
‘applicable person’ means—

“(A) any government (within the meaning of section 892) of any discriminatory
foreign country,

“(B) any individual (other than a citizen or resident of the United States)
who is tax resident of a discriminatory foreign country,

“(C) any foreign corporation (other than a United States-owned foreign
corporation, as defined in section 904(h)(6)) which is a tax resident of a
discriminatory foreign country,

“(D) any private foundation (within the meaning of section 4948) created or
organized in a discriminatory foreign country,

“(E) any foreign corporation (other than a publicly held corporation) if more
than 50 percent of—

“(i) the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of such
corporation entitled to vote, or

“(ii) the total value of the stock of such corporation,

is owned (within the meaning of section 958(a)) by persons described in this
paragraph,

“(F) any trust the majority of the beneficial interests of which are held
(directly or indirectly) by persons described in this paragraph, and

“(G) foreign partnerships, branches, and any other entity identified with
respect to a discriminatory foreign country by the Secretary for purposes of
this subsection.

“(2) CONTINUATION OF TREATMENT DURING CERTAIN PERIODS.—For purposes of this
section, if a person would cease to be an applicable person for a period of
less than one year, such person shall continue to be treated as an applicable
person during such period.

“(c) Unfair foreign tax.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘unfair foreign tax’ means an undertaxed profits
rule (UTPR), digital services tax, diverted profits tax, and, to the extent
provided by the Secretary, an extraterritorial tax, discriminatory tax, or any
other tax enacted with a public or stated purpose indicating the tax will be
economically borne, directly or indirectly, disproportionately by United
States persons. Such term shall not include any tax which neither applies to—

“(A) any United States person (including a trade or business of a United
States person), nor

“(B) any foreign corporation (including a trade or business of such foreign
corporation) if the foreign corporation is a controlled foreign corporation
and more than 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of
stock of such corporation entitled to vote, or the total value of the stock of
such corporation) is owned (within the meaning of section 958(a)) by United
States persons.

“(2) EXTRATERRITORIAL TAX.—The term ‘extraterritorial tax’ means any tax
imposed by a foreign country on a corporation (including any trade or business
of such corporation) which is determined by reference to any income or profits
received by any person (including any trade or business of any person) by
reason of such person being connected to such corporation through any chain of
ownership, determined without regard to the ownership interests of any
individual, and other than by reason of such corporation having a direct or
indirect ownership interest in such person.

“(3) DISCRIMINATORY TAX.—The term ‘discriminatory tax’ means any tax imposed
by a foreign country if—

“(A) such tax applies more than incidentally to items of income that would not
be considered to be from sources, or effectively connected to a trade or
business, within the foreign country under the rules of part I of this
subchapter if such part were applied by treating such foreign country as
though it were the United States,

“(B) such tax is imposed on a base other than net income and is not computed
by permitting recovery of costs and expenses,

“(C) such tax is exclusively or predominantly applicable, in practice or by
its terms, to nonresident individuals and foreign corporations or partnerships
(as determined under rules similar to paragraphs (4) and (5) of section
7701(a) by treating the foreign country as though it were the United States)
because of the application of revenue thresholds, exemptions or exclusions for
taxpayers subject to such foreign country’s corporate income tax, or
restrictions of scope that ensure that substantially all residents (other than
foreign corporations and partnerships (as so determined)) supplying comparable
goods or services are excluded from the application of such tax, or

“(D) such tax is not treated as an income tax under the laws of such foreign
country or is otherwise treated by such foreign country as outside the scope
of any agreements that are in force between such foreign country and one or
more other jurisdictions for the avoidance of double taxation with respect to
taxes on income.

“(4) EXCEPTIONS.—Except as otherwise provided by the Secretary, the terms
‘extraterritorial tax’ and ‘discriminatory tax’ shall not include any
generally applicable tax which constitutes—

“(A) an income tax generally imposed on the income of citizens or residents of
the foreign country, even if the computation of income includes payments that
would be foreign source income under part I of this subchapter,

“(B) an income tax which would be an unfair foreign tax (determined without
regard to this subparagraph) solely because it is imposed on the income of
nonresidents attributable to a trade or business in such foreign country,

“(C) an income tax which would be an unfair foreign tax (determined without
regard to this subparagraph) solely because it is imposed on citizens or
residents of such foreign country by reference to the income of a corporate
subsidiary of such person,

“(D) a withholding tax, or other gross basis tax, on any amount described in
section 871(a)(1) or 881(a), other than any withholding tax, or other gross
basis tax, imposed with respect to services performed by persons other than
individuals,

“(E) a value added tax, goods and services tax, sales tax, or other similar
tax on consumption,

“(F) a tax imposed with respect to transactions on a per-unit or per-
transaction basis rather than on an ad valorem basis,

“(G) a tax on real or personal property, an estate tax, a gift tax, other
similar tax,

“(H) a tax which would not be an extraterritorial tax or discriminatory tax
(determined without regard to this subparagraph) except by reason of
consolidation or loss sharing rules that generally apply only with respect to
income of tax residents of the foreign country, or

“(I) any other tax identified by the Secretary for purposes of this paragraph.

“(d) Other definitions.—For purposes of this section—

“(1) DISCRIMINATORY FOREIGN COUNTRY.—The term ‘discriminatory foreign country’
means any foreign country which has one or more unfair foreign taxes.

“(2) FOREIGN COUNTRY.—The term ‘foreign country’ means a foreign country (or
political subdivision thereof) or a dependent territory or possession of a
foreign country. Such term does not include any possession of the United
States.

“(3) TAX.—The term ‘tax’ includes any increase in tax whether effectuated by
an increase in the rate or base of a tax, by a denial of deductions or
credits, or otherwise.

“(e) Regulations and other guidance.—The Secretary shall issue such
regulations or other guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out
the purposes of this section, including regulations or other guidance which—

“(1) provide for such adjustments to the application of this section as are
necessary to prevent the avoidance of the purposes of this section, including
the application of this section (including subsections (b)(1)(E) and
(c)(2)(A)(ii)) with respect to branches, partnerships, and other entities
(whether or not otherwise disregarded for purposes of this chapter),

“(2) list the discriminatory foreign countries (and each such country’s
applicable date) in guidance, and update such guidance on a quarterly basis,

“(3) provide notice to Congress with respect to changes to the list under
paragraph (2),

“(4) exercise the authority to provide exceptions under subsections (b)(1),
(c)(4), and

“(5) prevent the application of subsection (a)(2)(D) from resulting in double
counting of amounts for purposes of section 59A(c)(4)(A)(ii).”.

(b) Clerical amendment.—The table of sections for subpart D of part II of
subchapter N of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:

  
“Sec. 899. Enforcement of remedies against unfair foreign taxes.”.

SEC. 112029. Modification of treatment of silencers.

(a) In general.—[Section
5845(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=5845) is
amended by striking “(7) any silencer” and all that follows through “; and
(8)” and inserting “and (7)”.

(b) Transfer tax.—[Section
5811(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=5811) is
amended to read as follows:

“(a) Rate.—There shall be levied, collected, and paid on firearms transferred
a tax at the rate of—

“(1) $5 for each firearm transferred in the case of a weapon classified as any
other weapon under section 5845(e),

“(2) $0 for each firearm transferred in the case of a silencer (as defined in
section 921 of title 18, United States Code), and

“(3) $200 for any other firearm transferred.”.

(c) Making tax.—[Section
5821(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=5821) is
amended to read as follows:

“(a) Rate.—There shall be levied, collected, and paid upon the making of a
firearm a tax at the rate of—

“(1) $0 for each silencer (as defined in section 921 of title 18, United
States Code) made, and

“(2) $200 for any other firearm made.”.

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
calendar quarters beginning more than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act.

SEC. 112030.  Modifications to de minimis entry privilege for commercial
shipments.

(a) Civil penalty.—

(1) ADDITIONAL PENALTY IMPOSED.—Section 321 of the Tariff Act of 1930 ([19
U.S.C.
1321](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=19&section=1321)) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(c) Any person who enters, introduces, facilitates, or attempts to introduce
an article into the United States using the privilege of this section, the
importation of which violates any other provision of United States customs
law, shall be assessed, in addition to any other penalty permitted by law, a
civil penalty of up to $5,000 for the first violation and up to $10,000 for
each subsequent violation.”.

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect 30
days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

(b) Repeal of commercial shipment exception.—

(1) REPEAL.—Section 321(a)(2)(B) of such Act ([19 U.S.C.
1321(a)(2)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=19&section=1321))
is amended by striking “of this Act, or” and all that follows through
“subdivision (2); and” and inserting “of this Act; and”.

(2) CONFORMING REPEAL.—Subsection (c) of such [section
321](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=321), as
added by subsection (a) of this section, is repealed.

(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this subsection shall take effect
on July 1, 2027.

SEC. 112031. Limitation on drawback of taxes paid with respect to substituted
merchandise.

Effective for claims filed on or after July 1, 2026, for purposes of drawback
of internal revenue tax imposed under [chapter
52](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter52-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, the amount of drawback granted under such Code, or the Tariff Act of
1930, on the export or destruction of substituted merchandise may not exceed
the amount of taxes paid (and not returned by refund, credit, or drawback) on
the substituted merchandise.

SEC. 112032.  Treatment of payments from partnerships to partners for property
or services.

(a) In general.—[Section
707(a)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=707)
is amended by striking “Under regulations prescribed” and inserting “Except as
provided”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to services
performed, and property transferred, after the date of the enactment of this
Act.

(c) Rule of construction.—Nothing in this section, or the amendments made by
this section, shall be construed to create any inference with respect to the
proper treatment under [section
707(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=707) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with respect to payments from a partnership
to a partner for services performed, or property transferred, on or before the
date of the enactment of this Act.

PART 2—Removing Taxpayer Benefits for Illegal Immigrants

SEC. 112101.  Permitting premium tax credit only for certain individuals.

(a) In general.—[Section
36B(e)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
is amended by inserting “or, in the case of aliens who are lawfully present,
are not eligible aliens” after “individuals who are not lawfully present”.

(b) Eligible aliens.—[Section
36B(e)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
is amended—

(1) by striking “For purposes of this section, an individual” and inserting
the following: “For purposes of this section—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—An individual”, and

(2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(B) ELIGIBLE ALIENS.—An individual who is an alien and lawfully present shall
be treated as an eligible alien if and only if such individual is, and is
reasonably expected to be for the entire period of enrollment for which the
credit under this section is being claimed—

“(i) an alien who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence under the
Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C. 1101 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1101)),

“(ii) an alien who—

“(I) is a citizen or national of the Republic of Cuba,

“(II) is the beneficiary of an approved petition under section 203(a) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1153(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1153)),

“(III) meets all eligibility requirements for an immigrant visa but for whom
such a visa is not immediately available,

“(IV) is not otherwise inadmissible under section 212(a) of such Act ([8
U.S.C.
1182(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1182)),
and

“(V) is physically present in the United States pursuant to a grant of parole
in furtherance of the commitment of the United States to the minimum level of
annual legal migration of Cuban nationals to the United States specified in
the U.S.-Cuba Joint Communiqué on Migration, done at New York September 9,
1994, and reaffirmed in the Cuba-United States: Joint Statement on
Normalization of Migration, Building on the Agreement of September 9, 1994,
done at New York May 2, 1995, or

“(iii) an individual who lawfully resides in the United States in accordance
with a Compact of Free Association referred to in section 402(b)(2)(G) of the
Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 ([8
U.S.C.
1612(b)(2)(G)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1612)).”.

(c) Conforming amendments.—

(1) VERIFICATION OF INFORMATION.—Section 1411 of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18081](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18081)) is
amended—

(A) in subsection (a)—

(i) in paragraph (1), by striking “and [section
36B(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986”; and

(ii) in paragraph (2)—

(I) in subparagraph (A), by striking “and” at the end;

(II) in subparagraph (B), by adding “and” at the end; and

(III) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) in the case such individual is an alien lawfully present in the United
States, whether such individual is an eligible alien (within the meaning of
section 36B(e)(2) of such Code);”;

(B) in subsection (b)(3), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(D) IMMIGRATION STATUS.—In the case the individual’s eligibility is based on
an attestation of the enrollee’s immigration status, an attestation that such
individual is an eligible alien (within the meaning of 36B(e)(2) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986).”; and

(C) in subsection (c)(2)(B)(ii), by adding at the end the following new
subclause:

“(III) In the case of an individual described in clause (i)(I) with respect to
whom a premium tax credit or reduced cost-sharing under [section
36B](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or section 1402 is being claimed, the
attestation that the individual is an eligible alien (within the meaning of
section 36B(e)(2) of such Code).”.

(2) ADVANCE DETERMINATIONS.—Section 1412(d) of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18082(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18082))
is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: “or, in
the case of aliens who are lawfully present, are not eligible aliens (within
the meaning of [section
36B(e)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986)”.

(3) COST-SHARING REDUCTIONS.—Section 1402(e) of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18071(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18071))
is amended—

(A) in the header, by inserting “or not eligible aliens” after “individuals
not lawfully present”;

(B) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting
“or, in the case of an alien who is lawfully present, is not an eligible alien
(within the meaning of [section
36B(e)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986)” after “not lawfully present”; and

(C) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:

“(2) ELIGIBLE ALIENS.—For purposes of this section, an individual shall be
treated as an eligible alien (within the meaning of [section
36B(e)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) if, and only if, the individual is, and
for the entire period of enrollment for which the cost-sharing reduction under
this section is being claimed is reasonably expected to be, such an alien.”.

(4) BASIC HEALTH PROGRAMS.—Section 1331(e)(1) of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18051(e)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18051))
is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: “or, in
the case of an alien who is lawfully present, an individual who is not an
eligible alien (as defined in [section
36B(e)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986”.

(5) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this subsection shall apply with
respect to plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2027.

(d) Clerical amendments.—

(1) The heading for [section
36B(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B) is
amended by inserting “and not eligible aliens” after “individuals not lawfully
present”.

(2) The heading for [section
36B(e)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
is amended by inserting “; eligible aliens” after “Lawfully present”.

(e) Requirement to maintain minimum essential coverage.—[Section
5000A(d)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=5000A)
is amended by striking “an alien lawfully present in the United States” and
inserting “an eligible alien (within the meaning of section 36B(e)(2))”.

(f) Regulations.—The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Health and
Human Services may each prescribe such rules and other guidance as may be
necessary or appropriate to carry out the amendments made by this section.

(g) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section (other than the
amendments made by subsection (c)) shall apply to taxable years beginning
after December 31, 2026.

SEC. 112102.  Disallowing premium tax credit during periods of Medicaid
ineligibility due to alien status.

(a) In general.—[Section
36B(c)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
is amended by striking subparagraph (B) and by redesignating subparagraphs
(C), (D), and (E) as subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D), respectively.

(b) Conforming amendments.—

(1) [Section
36B(g)(4)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
is amended by striking “subsection (c)(1)(C)” and inserting “subsection
(c)(1)(B)”.

(2) Section 1331(e)(1)(B) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
([42 U.S.C.
18051(e)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18051))
is amended by striking “, or, in the case of” and all that follows through
“such alien status”.

(3) Section 1402(b) of such Act ([42 U.S.C.
18071(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18071))
is amended by striking the second sentence.

(c) Regulations.—The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Health and
Human Services may each prescribe such rules and other guidance as may be
necessary or appropriate to carry out the amendments made by this section.

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112103. Limiting Medicare coverage of certain individuals.

Title XVIII of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 1395 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1395)) is
amended by adding at the end the following new section:

“SEC. 1899C.  Limiting Medicare coverage of certain individuals.

“(a) In general.—Subject to subsection (b), an individual may be entitled to,
or enrolled for, benefits under this title only if the individual is—

“(1) a citizen or national of the United States;

“(2) an alien who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence under the
Immigration and Nationality Act;

“(3) an alien who—

“(A) is a citizen or national of the Republic of Cuba;

“(B) is the beneficiary of an approved petition under section 203(a) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act;

“(C) meets all eligibility requirements for an immigrant visa but for whom
such a visa is not immediately available;

“(D) is not otherwise inadmissible under section 212(a) of such Act; and

“(E) is physically present in the United States pursuant to a grant of parole
in furtherance of the commitment of the United States to the minimum level of
annual legal migration of Cuban nationals to the United States specified in
the U.S.-Cuba Joint Communiqué on Migration, done at New York September 9,
1994, and reaffirmed in the Cuba-United States: Joint Statement on
Normalization of Migration, Building on the Agreement of September 9, 1994,
done at New York May 2, 1995; or

“(4) an individual who lawfully resides in the United States in accordance
with a Compact of Free Association referred to in section 402(b)(2)(G) of the
Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996.

“(b) Application to individuals currently entitled to or enrolled for
benefits.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of an individual who is entitled to, or enrolled
for, benefits under this title as of the date of the enactment of this
section, subsection (a) shall apply beginning on the date that is 1 year after
such date of enactment.

“(2) REVIEW BY COMMISSIONER OF SOCIAL SECURITY.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of
this section, the Commissioner of Social Security shall complete a review of
individuals entitled to, or enrolled for, benefits under this title as of such
date of enactment for purposes of identifying individuals not described in any
of paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (a).

“(B) NOTICE.—The Commissioner of Social Security shall notify each individual
identified under the review conducted under subparagraph (A) that such
individual’s entitlement to, or enrollment for, benefits under this title will
be terminated as of the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of
this section. Such notification shall be made as soon as practicable after
such identification and in a manner designed to ensure such individual’s
comprehension of such notification.”.

SEC. 112104. Excise tax on remittance transfers.

(a) In general.—[Chapter
36](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=) is amended
by inserting after subchapter B the following new subchapter:

“subchapter C—Remittance transfers

  
“Sec. 4475. Imposition of tax.

“SEC. 4475.  Imposition of tax.

“(a) In general.—There is hereby imposed on any remittance transfer a tax
equal to 3.5 percent of the amount of such transfer.

“(b) Payment of tax.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The tax imposed by this section with respect to any
remittance transfer shall be paid by the sender with respect to such transfer.

“(2) COLLECTION.—The remittance transfer provider with respect to any
remittance transfer shall collect the amount of the tax imposed under
subsection (a) with respect to such transfer from the sender and remit such
tax quarterly to the Secretary at such time and in such manner as provided by
the Secretary.

“(3) SECONDARY LIABILITY.—Where any tax imposed by subsection (a) is not paid
at the time the transfer is made, then to the extent that such tax is not
collected, such tax shall be paid by the remittance transfer provider.

“(c) Exception for remittance transfers sent by citizens and nationals of the
United States through certain providers.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) shall not apply to any remittance transfer
with respect to which the remittance transfer provider is a qualified
remittance transfer provider and the sender is a verified United States
sender.

“(2) QUALIFIED REMITTANCE TRANSFER PROVIDER.—For purposes of this subsection,
the term ‘qualified remittance transfer provider’ means any remittance
transfer provider which enters into a written agreement with the Secretary
pursuant to which such provider agrees to verify the status of senders as
citizens or nationals of the United States in such manner, and in accordance
with such procedures, as the Secretary may specify.

“(3) VERIFIED UNITED STATES SENDER.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘verified United States sender’ means any sender who is verified by a
qualified remittance transfer provider as being a citizen or national of the
United States pursuant to an agreement described in paragraph (2).

“(d) Definitions.—For purposes of this section, the terms ‘remittance
transfer’, ‘remittance transfer provider’, ‘designated recipient’, and
‘sender’ shall each have the respective meanings given such terms by section
920(g) of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act ([15 U.S.C.
1693o-1](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=1693o-1);
relating to “Remittance Transfers”).

“(e) Application of anti-conduit rules.—For purposes of section 7701(l) with
respect to any multiple-party arrangements involving the sender, a remittance
transfer shall be treated as a financing transaction.”.

(b) Refundable income tax credit allowed to citizens and nationals of the
United States for excise tax on remittance transfers.—Subpart C of part IV of
subchapter A of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting after
section 36B the following new section:

“SEC. 36C.  Credit for excise tax on remittance transfers of citizens and
nationals of the United States.

“(a) In general.—In the case of any individual, there shall be allowed as a
credit against the tax imposed by this subtitle for any taxable year an amount
equal to the aggregate amount of taxes paid by such individual under section
4475 during such taxable year.

“(b) Social security number requirement.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—No credit shall be allowed under this section unless the
taxpayer includes on the return of tax for the taxable year—

“(A) the individual’s social security number, and

“(B) if the individual is married, the social security number of such
individuals’s spouse.

“(2) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER.—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘social
security number’ has the meaning given such term in section 24(h)(7).

“(3) MARRIED INDIVIDUALS.—Rules similar to the rules of section 32(d) shall
apply to this section.

“(c) Substantiation requirements.—No credit shall be allowed under this
section unless the taxpayer demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary
that the tax under section 4475 with respect to which such credit is
determined—

“(1) was paid by the taxpayer, and

“(2) is with respect to a remittance transfer with respect to which the
taxpayer provided to the remittance transfer provider the certification and
information referred to in section 6050BB(a)(2).

“(d) Definitions.—Any term used in this section which is also used in section
4475 shall have the meaning given such term in section 4475.

“(e) Application of anti-conduit rules.—For rules providing for the
application of the anti-conduit rules of section 7701(l) to remittance
transfers, see section 4475(e).”.

(c) Reporting by remittance transfer providers.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Subpart B of part III of subchapter A of chapter 61, as
amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the
end the following new section:

“SEC. 6050BB.  Returns relating to remittance transfers.

“(a) In general.—Each remittance transfer provider shall make a return at such
time as the Secretary may provide setting forth—

“(1) in the case of a qualified remittance transfer provider with respect to
remittance transfers to which section 4475(a) does not apply by reason of
section 4475(c), the aggregate number and value of such transfers,

“(2) in the case of any remittance transfer not described in paragraph (1) and
with respect to which the sender certifies to the remittance transfer provider
an intent to claim the credit under section 36C and provides the information
described in paragraph (1)—

“(A) the name, address, and social security number of the sender,

“(B) the amount of tax paid by the sender under section 4475(b)(1), and

“(C) the amount of tax remitted by the remittance transfer provider under
section 4475(b)(2), and

“(3) in the case of any remittance transfer not included under paragraph (1)
or (2)—

“(A) the aggregate amount of tax paid under section 4475(b)(1) with respect to
such transfers, and

“(B) the aggregate amount of tax remitted under section 4475(b)(2) with
respect to such transfers.

“(b) Statement to be furnished to named persons.—Every person required to make
a return under subsection (a) shall furnish, at such time as the Secretary may
provide, to each person whose name is required to be set forth in such return
a written statement showing—

“(1) the name and address of the information contact of the required reporting
person, and

“(2) the information described in subsection (a)(2) which relates to such
person.

“(c) Definitions.—Any term used in this section which is also used in section
4475 shall have the meaning given such term in such section.”.

(2) PENALTIES.—Section 6724(d), as amended by the preceding provisions of this
Act, is amended—

(A) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking “or” at the end of clause (xxviii), by
striking “and” at the end of clause (xxix) and inserting “or”, and by adding
at the end the following new clause:

“(xxx) section 6050BB(a) (relating to returns relating to remittance
transfers), and”, and

(B) in paragraph (2), by striking “or” at the end of subparagraph (NN), by
striking the period at the end of subparagraph (OO) and inserting “, or”, and
by inserting after subparagraph (OO) the following new subparagraph:

“(PP) section 6050BB(b) (relating to statements relating to remittance
transfers).”.

(d) Conforming amendments.—

(1) [Section
6211(b)(4)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6211)
is amended by inserting “36C,” after “36B,”.

(2) Section 6213(g)(2), as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is
amended by striking “and” at the end of subparagraph (Z), by the striking the
period at the end of subparagraph (AA) and inserting “, and”, and by inserting
after subparagraph (AA) the following new subparagraph:

“(BB) an omission of a correct social security number under section 36C(b) to
be included on a return.”.

(3) Section 1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by
inserting “36C,” after “36B,”.

(4) The table of sections for subpart C of part IV of subchapter A of [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting after the
item relating to section 36B the following new item:

  
“Sec. 36C. Credit for excise tax on remittance transfers of citizens and
nationals of the United States.”.

(5) The table of sections for subpart B of part III of subchapter A of
[chapter 61](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter61-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:

  
“Sec. 6050BB. Returns relating to remittance transfers.”.

(6) The table of subchapters for [chapter
36](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter36-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by inserting after
the item relating to subchapter B the following new item:

“SUBCHAPTER C—REMITTANCE TRANSFERS

(e) Effective date.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the
amendments made by this section shall apply to transfers made after December
31, 2025.

(2) TAX CREDIT.—The amendments made by subsection (b), and paragraphs (1)
through (4) of subsection (d), shall apply to taxable years ending after
December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112105. Social security number requirement for American opportunity and
lifetime learning credits.

(a) Social security number of taxpayer required.—[Section
25A(g)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=25A)
is amended to read as follows:

“(1) IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—

“(A) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER REQUIREMENT.—No credit shall be allowed under
subsection (a) to a taxpayer unless the taxpayer includes on the return of tax
for the taxable year—

“(i) such individual’s social security number,

“(ii) if the individual is married, the social security number of such
individual’s spouse, and

“(iii) in the case of a credit with respect to the qualified tuition and
related expenses of an individual other than the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s
spouse, the name and social security number of such individual.

“(B) INSTITUTION.—No American Opportunity Tax Credit shall be allowed under
this section unless the taxpayer includes the employer identification number
of any institution to which the taxpayer paid qualified tuition and related
expenses taken into account under this section on the return of tax for the
taxable year.

“(C) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER DEFINED.—For purposes of this paragraph, the term
‘social security number’ shall have the meaning given such term in section
24(h)(7).”.

(b) Rules related to married individuals.—[Section
25A(g)(6)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=25A)
is amended to read as follows:

“(6) RULES RELATED TO MARRIED INDIVIDUALS.—Rules similar to the rules of
section 32(d) shall apply to this section.”.

(c) Omission treated as mathematical or clerical error.—[Section
6213(g)(2)(J)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=6213)
is amended by striking “TIN” and inserting “social security number or employer
identification number”.

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

PART 3—Preventing Fraud, Waste, and Abuse

SEC. 112201. Requiring Exchange verification of eligibility for health plan.

(a) In general.—[Section
36B(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:

“(5) EXCHANGE ENROLLMENT VERIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘coverage month’ shall not include, with respect to
any individual covered by a qualified health plan enrolled in through an
Exchange, any month beginning before the Exchange verifies, using applicable
enrollment information that shall be provided or verified by the applicant,
such individual’s eligibility—

“(i) to enroll in the plan through the Exchange,

“(ii) for any advance payment under section 1412 of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act of the credit allowed under this section, and

“(iii) for any reduced cost-sharing under section 1402 of such Act.

“(B) APPLICABLE ENROLLMENT INFORMATION.—For purposes of subparagraph (A),
applicable enrollment information shall at least include affirmation of the
following information (to the extent relevant in determining eligibility
described in subparagraph (A)):

“(i) Income.

“(ii) Any immigration status.

“(iii) Any health coverage status or eligibility for coverage.

“(iv) Place of residence.

“(v) Family size.

“(vi) Such other information as may be determined by the Secretary (in
consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services) as necessary to
the verification prescribed under subparagraph (A).

“(C) VERIFICATION OF PAST MONTHS.—In the case of a month that begins before
verification prescribed by subparagraph (A), such month shall be treated as a
coverage month if, and only if, the Exchange verifies for such month (using
applicable enrollment information that shall be provided or verified by the
applicant) such individual’s eligibility to have so enrolled, for any such
advance payment, and for any such reduced cost-sharing.

“(D) EXCHANGE PARTICIPATION; COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROCEDURES FOR
DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY.—An individual shall not, solely by reason of failing
to meet the requirements of this paragraph with respect to a month, be treated
for such month as ineligible to enroll in a qualified health plan through an
Exchange.

“(6) EXCHANGE COMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENTS.—The term ‘coverage month’
shall not include, with respect to any individual covered by a qualified
health plan enrolled in through an Exchange, any month for which the Exchange
does not meet the requirements of section 155.305(f)(4) of title 45, Code of
Federal Regulations (as published in the Federal Register on March 19, 2025
(90 FR 12942)), with respect to the individual.”.

(b) Pre-enrollment verification process required.—[Section
36B(c)(3)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
is amended—

(1) by striking “health plan.—The term” and inserting the following: “health
plan.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The term”, and

(2) by adding at the end the following new clause:

“(ii) PRE-ENROLLMENT VERIFICATION PROCESS REQUIRED.—Such term shall not
include any plan enrolled in through an Exchange, unless such Exchange
provides a process for pre-enrollment verification through which any applicant
may, beginning not later than August 1, verify with the Exchange the
applicant’s eligibility for enrollment in such plan for plan years beginning
in the subsequent year, for any advance payment of the credit allowed under
this section, and for reduced cost-sharing under section 1402 of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act.”.

(c) Regulations.—The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Health and
Human Services may each prescribe such rules and other guidance as may be
necessary or appropriate to carry out the amendments made by this section.

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2027.

SEC. 112202. Disallowing premium tax credit in case of certain coverage
enrolled in during special enrollment period.

(a) In general.—Section 36B(c)(3)(A), as amended by the preceding provisions
of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new clause:

“(iii) EXCEPTION IN CASE OF CERTAIN SPECIAL ENROLLMENT PERIODS.—Such term
shall not include any plan enrolled in during a special enrollment period
provided for by an Exchange—

“(I) on the basis of the relationship of the individual’s expected household
income to such a percentage of the poverty line (or such other amount) as is
prescribed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services for purposes of such
period, and

“(II) not in connection with the occurrence of an event or change in
circumstances specified by the Secretary of Health and Human Services for such
purposes.”.

(b) Regulations.—The Secretary of Treasury and the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall prescribe such rules (including interim final and
temporary regulations) and other guidance as may be necessary to carry out the
purposes of the amendments made by this section.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply with
respect to plans enrolled in during calendar months beginning after the third
calendar month ending after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 112203. Eliminating limitation on recapture of advance payment of premium
tax credit.

(a) In general.—[Section
36B(f)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
is amended by striking subparagraph (B).

(b) Conforming amendments.—

(1) [Section
36B(f)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
is amended by striking “advance payments.—” and all that follows through “If
the advance payments” and inserting the following: “advance payments.—If the
advance payments”.

(2) [Section
35(g)(12)(B)(ii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=35)
is amended by striking “then section 36B(f)(2)(B) shall be applied by
substituting the amount determined under clause (i) for the amount determined
under section 36B(f)(2)(A)” and inserting “then the amount determined under
clause (i) shall be substituted for the amount determined under section
36B(f)(2)”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2025.

SEC. 112204.  Implementing artificial intelligence tools for purposes of
reducing and recouping improper payments under Medicare.

(a) In general.—Part E of title XVIII of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1395x et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1395x)), as
amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the
end the following new section:

“SEC. 1899D.  Implementing artificial intelligence tools for purposes of
reducing and recouping improper payments.

“(a) In general.—Not later than January 1, 2027, the Secretary shall implement
such artificial intelligence tools determined appropriate by the Secretary for
purposes of—

“(1) reducing improper payments made under parts A and B; and

“(2) identifying any such improper payments so made.

“(b) Contracts.—The Secretary shall seek to contract with a vendor of
artificial intelligence tools and with data scientists for purposes of
implementing the artificial intelligence tools required under subsection (a).

“(c) Recoupment.—The Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, recoup
payments identified using the artificial intelligence tools implemented under
subsection (a).

“(d) Report.—Not later than January 1, 2029, and not less frequently than
annually thereafter, the Secretary shall report to Congress on the
implementation of artificial intelligence tools under subsection (a) and the
recoupment of improper payments under subsection (c). Such report shall
include—

“(1) a description of any opportunities for further reducing rates of improper
payments described in subsection (a)(1) or further increasing rates of
recoupment of such payments;

“(2) the total dollar amount of improper payments recouped in the most recent
year for which data is available; and

“(3) in the case that the Secretary fails to reduce the rate of improper
payments by 50 percent in such most recent year as compared to the year prior
to such most recent year, a description of the reasons for such failure.”.

(b) Implementation funding.—

(1) FEDERAL HOSPITAL INSURANCE TRUST FUND.—The Secretary of Health and Human
Services shall provide for the transfer from the Federal Hospital Insurance
Trust Fund established under section 1817 of the Social Security Act ([42
U.S.C.
1395i](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1395i)) to
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Program Management Account of
$12,500,000 for fiscal year 2025 for purposes of carrying out the amendment
made by this section, to remain available until expended.

(2) FEDERAL SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE TRUST FUND.—The Secretary of
Health and Human Services shall provide for the transfer, from the Federal
Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund established under section 1841 of
the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1395t](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1395t)) to
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Program Management Account of
$12,500,000 for fiscal year 2025 for purposes of carrying out the amendment
made by this section, to remain available until expended.

SEC. 112205. Earned income tax credit reforms.

(a) Earned income tax credit certification program.—

(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—[Chapter
77](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter77-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:

“SEC. 7531.  Earned income tax credit certification program.

“(a) In general.—To avoid duplicative and other erroneous claims under section
32 with respect to a child of the taxpayer, for taxable years beginning after
December 31, 2027, the Secretary shall establish a program under which, on the
taxpayer’s application with respect to the child, the Secretary shall issue an
EITC certificate for purposes of section 32 establishing such child’s status
as a qualifying child only of the taxpayer for a taxable year.

“(b) Application requirements.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall not issue to a taxpayer an EITC
certificate with respect to a child for a taxable year unless the taxpayer
applies under the program with respect to the child and provides such
information and supporting documentation as the Secretary shall by regulation
prescribe as necessary to establish such child as a qualifying child only of
the taxpayer for the taxable year.

“(2) TIME AND MANNER OF APPLICATION.—Such application shall be made, and such
information and supporting documentation shall be provided—

“(A) in such manner as may be provided by the Secretary for purposes of this
section (including establishing an on-line portal), and

“(B) not later than the due date for the return of tax for the taxable year or
(if later) when the return is filed.

“(3) COMPETING CLAIMS.—In the case of more than 1 taxpayer making an
application with respect to a child under the program for a taxable year
beginning during a calendar year, the Secretary shall not issue an EITC
certificate to any such taxpayer with respect to such child for such a taxable
year unless the Secretary can establish such child, based on information and
supporting documentation provided under paragraph (1), as the qualifying child
only of one such taxpayer for such a taxable year.

“(c) Treatment of credit without certification under program.—For taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2027—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a taxpayer who takes into account as a
qualifying child under section 32 a child for whom an EITC certificate has not
been issued for the taxable year to the taxpayer—

“(A) the Secretary shall not credit the portion of any overpayment for such
taxable year that is attributable to the taxpayer taking into account such
child as a qualifying child, unless the taxpayer obtains, not later than the
due date for the return for the taxable year, an EITC certificate with respect
to such child for such taxable year, and

“(B) if the taxpayer fails to so obtain an EITC certificate, such failure
shall be treated—

“(i) as an omission of information required by section 32 with respect to such
child, and

“(ii) as arising out of a mathematical or clerical error and assessed
according to section 6213(b)(1).

“(2) TERMINATION OF CERTIFICATION.—In the case of a taxpayer who for a taxable
year takes into account as a qualifying child under section 32 a child for
whom an EITC certificate is terminated for such taxable year, such termination
shall be treated in the same manner as a failure to obtain an EITC certificate
under paragraph (1)(B).

“(d) Transition rules for taxable years beginning before 2028.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—If for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2023,
and before January 1, 2027, more than 1 taxpayer makes a claim for credit
under section 32 taking into account the same child as a qualifying child,
then the Secretary shall send notice to each such taxpayer (by certified or
registered mail to the last known address of the taxpayer) detailing the
resultant treatment of such taxpayers under paragraph (2) with respect to such
child for any subsequent taxable years beginning before 2028.

“(2) SUBSEQUENT TAXABLE YEARS BEGINNING BEFORE 2028.—In the case of a child
with respect to whom paragraph (1) applied by reason of claims for credit for
a taxable year, for any subsequent taxable years beginning before January 1,
2028—

“(A) subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall not credit the portion
of any overpayment for the taxable year that is attributable to a taxpayer
taking into account such child as a qualifying child under section 32 until
the 15th day of October following the end of the taxable year, and

“(B) if more than one taxpayer makes a claim for such credit for the taxable
year taking into account such child as a qualifying child, so taking such
child into account shall be treated—

“(i) as an omission of information required by section 32 with respect to such
child, and

“(ii) as arising out of a mathematical or clerical error and assessed
according to section 6213(b)(1).

“(e) Qualifying child.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘qualifying
child’ has the meaning given such term under section 32(c)(3).

“(f) Rebuttal of treatment.—Treatment under subsection (c) or (d)(2)(B) as
having omitted information required by section 32 may be rebutted by providing
such information and supporting documentation as satisfactorily demonstrates
the child is a qualifying child of the taxpayer for the taxable year.

“(g) Restrictions on taxpayers who improperly use program.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—A taxpayer shall not be permitted to apply for an EITC
certificate under the program for any taxable year in the disallowance period.

“(2) DISALLOWANCE PERIOD.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the disallowance
period is—

“(A) the period of 10 taxable years after the most recent taxable year for
which there was a penalty imposed under 6720D on the taxpayer (but only if
such penalty has been imposed on such taxpayer more than once, at least one
instance of which was due to fraud under section 6720D(b)),

“(B) the period of 2 taxable years after the most recent taxable year for
which there was a penalty imposed under 6720D on the taxpayer (but only if
such penalty has been imposed on such taxpayer more than once due to reckless
or intentional disregard of rules and regulations (but not imposed due to
fraud)), and

“(C) any disallowance period with respect to the taxpayer under section
32(k)(1).

“(h) Regulations.—The Secretary shall prescribe such rules as may be necessary
or appropriate to carry out the program and purposes of this section,
including—

“(1) a process for establishing alternating taxable year treatment of a child
as a qualifying child under a custodial arrangement,

“(2) notwithstanding subsection (d)(2), a process for—

“(A) establishing the status of a child as a qualifying child of the taxpayer
under section 32 for taxable years to which such subsection applies, and

“(B) allowing credit or refunds attributable to such status,

“(3) a simplified process for re-certifying a child as a qualifying child only
of the taxpayer for a taxable year, and

“(4) a process for terminating EITC certificates in the case of competing
claims with respect to a child or in cases in which issuance of the
certificate is determined by the Secretary to be erroneous.”.

(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 32 amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:

“(o) EITC certificate with respect to qualifying children.—For rules relating
to EITC certificates with respect to qualifying children and duplicate claims
for the credit allowed under this section, see section 7531.”.

(C) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections for [chapter
77](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter77-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:

  
“Sec. 7531. Earned income tax credit certification program.”.

(2) PENALTIES FOR IMPROPER USE OF EITC CERTIFICATE PROGRAM.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Part I of subchapter B of [chapter
68](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter68-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:

“SEC. 6720D.  PENALTIES WITH RESPECT TO EITC CERTIFICATE PROGRAM.

“(a) Reckless or intentional disregard.—If—

“(1) any person makes a material misstatement or inaccurate representation in
an application under section 7531 for an EITC certificate, and

“(2) such misstatement or representation was due to reckless or intentional
disregard of rules and regulations (but not due to fraud),

such person shall pay a penalty of $100 for each EITC certificate with respect
to which such misstatement or representation was made.

“(b) Fraud.—If a misstatement or representation described in subsection (a)(1)
is due to fraud on the part of the person making such misstatement or
representation, in addition to any criminal penalty, such person shall pay a
penalty of $500 for each EITC certificate with respect to which such a
misstatement or representation was made.”.

(B) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections for part I of subchapter B of
[chapter 68](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title26-chapter68-front&num=0&edition=prelim) is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:

  
“Sec. 6720D. Penalties with respect to EITC certificate program.”.

(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024.

(b) Task force to design a private data bouncing system for improvements to
the earned income tax credit.—Out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, there is hereby appropriated $10,000,000 for the fiscal year
ending on September 30, 2026, for necessary expenses of the Department of the
Treasury, to establish, within 90 days following the date of the enactment of
this Act, a task force to provide to the Secretary of the Treasury a report on
the following with respect to the administration of the earned income tax
credit:

(1) Recommendations for improvement of the integrity of such administration.

(2) The potential use of third-party payroll and consumption datasets to
verify income.

(3) The integration of automated databases to allow horizontal verification to
reduce improper payments, fraud, and abuse.

(c) Increased earned income tax credit for Purple Heart recipients whose
Social Security disability benefits are terminated by reason of work
activity.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 32, as amended by the preceding provisions of this
Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(p) Increase in credit for Purple Heart recipients whose Social Security
disability benefits are terminated by reason of work activity.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a specified Purple Heart recipient, the credit
otherwise determined under subsection (a) for the taxable year shall be
increased (whether or not such specified Purple Heart recipient is an eligible
individual) by the sum of the SSDI benefit substitution amounts with respect
to qualified benefit termination months during such taxable year.

“(2) SPECIFIED PURPLE HEART RECIPIENT.—For purposes of this subsection, the
term ‘specified Purple Heart recipient’ means any individual—

“(A) who received the Purple Heart,

“(B) who received disability insurance benefit payments under section 223(a)
of the Social Security Act, and

“(C) with respect to whom such disability insurance benefit payments ceased to
be payable by reason of section 223(e)(1) of such Act.

“(3) QUALIFIED BENEFIT TERMINATION MONTH.—For purposes of this subsection—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified benefit termination month’ means, with
respect to any specified Purple Heart recipient, each month during the
12-month period beginning with the first month with respect to which
disability insurance benefit payments described in paragraph (2)(B) ceased to
be payable as described in paragraph (2)(C).

“(B) EXCEPTION FOR MONTHS FOR WHICH BENEFITS ARE REINSTATED, ETC.—Such term
shall not include any month if the specified Purple Heart recipient receives
any benefit payment under section 223(a) of the Social Security Act with
respect to such month.

“(4) SSDI BENEFIT SUBSTITUTION AMOUNT.—For purposes of this subsection, the
term ‘SSDI benefit substitution amount’ means, with respect to any specified
Purple Heart recipient for any qualified benefit termination month, an amount
equal to the disability insurance benefit payment received by such recipient
under section 223(a) of the Social Security Act for the month immediately
preceding the 12-month period described in paragraph (3)(A).

“(5) CERTAIN EITC LIMITATIONS NOT APPLICABLE.—Subsections (a)(2), (d), (e),
(f), and (i) shall not apply with respect to the increase under paragraph
(1).”.

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made by this subsection shall apply to
taxable years ending after the date of the enactment of this Act.

(d) Social security number defined.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—[Section
32(m)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=32) is
amended by striking “issued to an individual” and all that follows and
inserting “(as defined section 24(h)(7))”.

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2024.

SEC. 112206.  Task force on the termination of Direct File.

(a) Termination of Direct File.—As soon as practicable, and not later than 30
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Treasury shall ensure that the Internal Revenue Service Direct File program
has been terminated.

(b) Appropriation for task force to design a better public-private partnership
between the IRS and private sector tax preparation services to provide for
free tax filing to replace the existing “Free File” program and any “Direct
Efile” tax return system.—Out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, there is hereby appropriated for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2026, for necessary expenses of the Department of the Treasury
to deliver to Congress, within 90 days following the date of the enactment of
this Act, a report on (1) the cost of a new public-private partnership to
provide for free tax filing for up to 70 percent of all taxpayers calculated
by adjusted gross income to replace free file and any IRS-run direct file
programs; (2) taxpayer opinions and preferences regarding a taxpayer-funded,
government-run service or a free service provided by the private sector; (3)
assessment of the feasibility of a new approach, how to make the options
consistent and simple for taxpayers across all participating providers, how to
provide features to address taxpayer needs; and (4) the cost (including
options for differential coverage based on taxpayer adjusted gross income and
return complexity) of developing and running a free direct efile tax return
system, including costs to build and administer each release, $15,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2026.

SEC. 112207.  Increase in penalties for unauthorized disclosures of taxpayer
information.

(a) In general.—Paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) of section 7213(a) are
each amended by striking “$5,000, or imprisonment of not more than 5 years”
and inserting “$250,000, or imprisonment of not more than 10 years”.

(b) Disclosures of return information of multiple taxpayers treated as
multiple violations.—[Section
7213(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=7213) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(6) DISCLOSURES OF RETURN INFORMATION OF MULTIPLE TAXPAYERS TREATED AS
MULTIPLE VIOLATIONS.—For purposes of this subsection, a separate violation
occurs with respect to each taxpayer whose return or return information is
disclosed in violation of this subsection.”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
disclosures made after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 112208.  Restriction on regulation of contingency fees with respect to
tax returns, etc.

The Secretary of the Treasury may not regulate, prohibit, or restrict the use
of a contingent fee in connection with tax returns, claims for refund, or
documents in connection with tax returns or claims for refund prepared on
behalf of a taxpayer.

subtitle D—Increase in Debt Limit

SEC. 113001.  Modification of limitation on the public debt.

The limitation under section 3101(b) of title 31, United States Code, as most
recently increased by section 401(b) of [Public Law
118–5](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-118publ5/pdf/PLAW-118publ5.pdf) ([31
U.S.C.
3101](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=31&section=3101)
note), is increased by $4,000,000,000,000.

Passed the House of Representatives May 22 (legislative day May 21), 2025.
