TITLE IV—Energy and Commerce

subtitle A—Energy

SEC. 41001. Rescissions relating to certain Inflation Reduction Act programs.

(a) State-based home energy efficiency contractor training grants.—The
unobligated balance of any amounts made available under subsection (a) of
section 50123 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
([42 U.S.C.
18795b](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18795b))
is rescinded.

(b) Funding for Department of Energy loan programs office.—The unobligated
balance of any amounts made available under subsection (b) of section 50141 of
[Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(136 Stat. 2042) is rescinded.

(c) Advanced technology vehicle manufacturing.—The unobligated balance of any
amounts made available under subsection (a) of section 50142 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(136 Stat. 2044) is rescinded.

(d) Energy infrastructure reinvestment financing.—The unobligated balance of
any amounts made available under subsection (a) of section 50144 of [Public
Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(136 Stat. 2044) is rescinded.

(e) Tribal energy loan guarantee program.—The unobligated balance of any
amounts made available under subsection (a) of section 50145 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(136 Stat. 2045) is rescinded.

(f) Transmission facility financing.—The unobligated balance of any amounts
made available under subsection (a) of section 50151 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
([42 U.S.C.
18715](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18715)) is
rescinded.

(g) Grants to facilitate the siting of interstate electricity transmission
lines.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under subsection
(a) of section 50152 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
([42 U.S.C.
18715a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18715a))
is rescinded.

(h) Interregional and offshore wind electricity transmission planning,
modeling, and analysis.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available
under subsection (a) of section 50153 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
([42 U.S.C.
18715b](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18715b))
is rescinded.

(i) Advanced industrial facilities deployment program.—The unobligated balance
of any amounts made available under subsection (a) of section 50161 of [Public
Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
([42 U.S.C.
17113a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=17113a))
is rescinded.

SEC. 41002. Natural gas exports and imports.

Section 3 of the Natural Gas Act ([15 U.S.C.
717b](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=717b)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:

“(g) Charge for exportation or importation of natural gas.—The Secretary of
Energy shall, by rule, impose and collect, for each application to export
natural gas from the United States to a foreign country with which there is
not in effect a free trade agreement requiring national treatment for trade in
natural gas, or to import natural gas from such a foreign country, a
nonrefundable charge of $1,000,000, and, for purposes of subsection (a), the
importation or exportation of natural gas that is proposed in an application
for which such a nonrefundable charge was imposed and collected shall be
deemed to be in the public interest, and such an application shall be granted
without modification or delay.”.

SEC. 41003. Funding for Department of Energy loan guarantee expenses.

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the
Secretary of Energy, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, $5,000,000, to remain available for a period of five years for
administrative expenses associated with carrying out section 116 of the Alaska
Natural Gas Pipeline Act ([15 U.S.C.
720n](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=720n)).

SEC. 41004. Expedited permitting.

The Natural Gas Act is amended by adding after section 15 ([15 U.S.C.
717n](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=717n)) the
following:

“SEC. 15A.  Expedited permitting.

“(a) Definitions.—In this section:

“(1) COVERED APPLICATION.—The term ‘covered application’ means an application
for an authorization under section 3 or a certificate of public convenience
and necessity under section 7, as applicable, for activities that include
construction.

“(2) FEDERAL AUTHORIZATION.—The term ‘Federal authorization’ has the meaning
given such term in section 15(a).

“(b) Expedited review.—

“(1) NOTIFICATION OF ELECTION AND PAYMENT OF FEE.—Prior to submitting a
covered application, an applicant may elect to obtain an expedited review of
authorizations pursuant to Sections 3 and 7 of the Natural Gas Act for the
approval of such covered application by—

“(A) submitting to the Commission a written notification—

“(i) of the election; and

“(ii) that identifies each Federal authorization required for the approval of
the covered application and each Federal, State, or interstate agency that
will consider an aspect of each such Federal authorization; and

“(B) making a payment to the Secretary of the Treasury in an amount that is
the lesser of—

“(i) one percent of the expected cost of the applicable construction, as
determined by the applicant; or

“(ii) $10,000,000 (adjusted for inflation, as the Secretary of the Treasury
determines necessary).

“(2) SUBMISSION AND REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.—

“(A) APPLICATION.—Not later than 60 days after the date on which an applicant
elects to obtain an expedited review under paragraph (1), the applicant shall
submit to the Commission the covered application for which such election for
an expedited review was made, which shall include—

“(i) the scope of the applicable activities, including capital investment,
siting, temporary construction, and final workforce numbers;

“(ii) the industrial sector of the applicant, as classified by the North
American Industry Classification System; and

“(iii) a list of the statutes and regulations that are relevant to the covered
application.

“(B) APPROVAL.—

“(i) STANDARD DEADLINE.—Except as provided in clause (ii), not later than one
year after the date on which an applicant submits a covered application
pursuant to subparagraph (A)—

“(I) each Federal, State, or interstate agency identified under paragraph
(1)(A)(ii) shall—

“(aa) review the relevant Natural Gas Act sections 3 or 7 authorization
identified under such paragraph; and

“(bb) subject to any conditions determined by such agency to be necessary to
comply with the requirements of the Federal law under which such approval is
required, approve such Federal authorization; and

“(II) the Commission shall—

“(aa) review the covered application; and

“(bb) subject to any conditions determined by the Commission to be necessary
to comply with the requirements of this Act, approve the covered application.

“(ii) EXTENDED DEADLINE.—

“(I) EXTENSION.—With respect to a covered application submitted pursuant to
subparagraph (A), the Commission may approve a request by an agency identified
under paragraph (1)(A)(ii) for an extension of the one-year deadline imposed
by clause (i) of this subparagraph for a period of 6 months if the Commission
receives consent from the relevant applicant.

“(II) APPLICABILITY.—If the Commission approves a request for an extension
under subclause (I), such extension shall apply to the applicable covered
application and the Federal authorization for which the extension was
requested.

“(C) EFFECT OF FAILURE TO MEET DEADLINE.—

“(i) DEEMED APPROVAL.—Any covered application submitted pursuant to
subparagraph (A), or Federal authorization that is required with respect to
such covered application, that is not approved by the applicable deadline
under subparagraph (B) shall be deemed approved in perpetuity.

“(ii) COMPLIANCE.—A person carrying out activities under a covered application
or Federal authorization that has been deemed approved under clause (i) shall
comply with the requirements of the Natural Gas Act.

“(c) Judicial review.—

“(1) REVIEWABLE CLAIMS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—No court shall have jurisdiction to review a claim with
respect to the approval of a covered application or Federal authorization
under subparagraph (B) or (C)(i) of subsection (b)(2), except for a claim
under [chapter 7](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title5-chapter7-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 5, United States Code,
filed not later than 180 days after the date of such approval by—

“(i) the applicant; or

“(ii) a person who has suffered, or likely and imminently will suffer, direct
and irreparable economic harm from the approval.

“(B) CLAIMS BY CERTAIN NON-APPLICANTS.—An association may only bring a claim
on behalf of one or more of its members pursuant to subparagraph (A)(ii) if
each member of the association has suffered, or likely and imminently will
suffer, the harm described in subparagraph (A)(ii).

“(2) STANDARD OF REVIEW.—If an applicant or other person brings a claim
described in paragraph (1) with respect to the approval of a covered
application or Federal authorization under subsection (b)(2)(B), the court
shall hold unlawful and set aside any agency actions, findings, and
conclusions in accordance with section 706(2) of title 5, United States Code,
except that, for purposes of the application of subparagraph (E) of such
section, the court shall apply such subparagraph by substituting ‘clear and
convincing evidence’ for ‘substantial evidence’.

“(3) EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION.—The United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction
over any claim—

“(A) alleging the invalidity of subsection (b); or

“(B) that an agency action relating to a covered application or Federal
authorization under subsection (b) is beyond the scope of authority conferred
by the Federal law under which such agency action is made.”.

SEC. 41005. De-risking Compensation Program.

(a) Appropriation.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $10,000,000, to remain available through
September 30, 2034, to carry out this section: _Provided_ , That no
disbursements may be made under this section after September 30, 2034.

(b) De-Risking Compensation Program.—

(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established in the Department of Energy a program,
to be known as the De-Risking Compensation Program, to provide compensation to
sponsors, with respect to covered energy projects, that suffer unrecoverable
losses due to qualifying Federal actions.

(2) ELIGIBILITY.—A sponsor may enroll in the program with respect to a covered
energy project if—

(A) all approvals or permits required or authorized under Federal law for the
covered energy project have been received, regardless of whether a court order
subsequently remands or vacates such approvals or permits;

(B) the sponsor commenced construction of the covered energy project or made
capital expenditures with respect to the covered energy project in reliance on
such approvals or permits; and

(C) at the time of enrollment, no qualifying Federal action has been issued or
taken that has an effect described in subsection (g)(4)(B) on the covered
energy project.

(3) APPLICATION.—A sponsor may apply to enroll with respect to a covered
energy project in the program by submitting to the Secretary an application
containing such information as the Secretary may require.

(4) ENROLLMENT.—Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary
receives an application submitted under paragraph (3), the Secretary shall
enroll the sponsor in the program for the covered energy project with respect
to which the application was submitted if the Secretary determines that the
sponsor meets the requirements of paragraph (2) with respect to the covered
energy project.

(c) Fees and premiums.—

(1) ENROLLMENT FEE.—Not later than 60 days after the date on which a sponsor
is enrolled in the program under subsection (b)(4), the sponsor shall pay to
the Secretary a one-time enrollment fee equal to 5 percent of the sponsor
capital contribution for the applicable covered energy project.

(2) ANNUAL PREMIUMS.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish and annually collect a premium
from each sponsor enrolled in the program for each covered energy project with
respect to which the sponsor is enrolled.

(B) REQUIREMENTS.—A premium established and collected from a sponsor under
subparagraph (A) shall—

(i) be equal to 1.5 percent of the sponsor capital contribution for the
applicable covered energy project; and

(ii) be paid beginning with the year of enrollment and continuing until the
earlier of—

(I) fiscal year 2033; or

(II) the year in which the sponsor withdraws from the program with respect to
the applicable covered energy project.

(C) ADJUSTMENT.—The Secretary may adjust the percentage required by
subparagraph (B)(i) once every two fiscal years to ensure Fund solvency,
except that—

(i) the Secretary may not vary such percentage between sponsors or projects;
and

(ii) such percentage may not exceed 5 percent.

(D) PUBLICATION.—The Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register not later
than 60 days prior to the start of each fiscal year a list of each premium to
be collected for the fiscal year.

(d) Compensation.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Using amounts available in the Fund, and subject to paragraph
(5), the Secretary shall provide compensation to a sponsor enrolled in the
program with respect to a covered energy project if—

(A) the sponsor paid the enrollment fee and the premium for each year the
sponsor was enrolled in the program with respect to the covered energy
project; and

(B) the sponsor demonstrates, in a request submitted to the Secretary, that a
qualifying Federal action has been issued or taken that has an effect
described in subsection (g)(4)(B) on the covered energy project.

(2) REQUEST FOR COMPENSATION.—A request under paragraph (1) shall contain the
following:

(A) Information on each Federal approval or permit relating to the covered
energy project, including the date on which such approval or permit was
issued.

(B) A certified accounting of capital expenditures made in reliance on each
such Federal approval or permit.

(C) A description of, and, if applicable, a citation to, the applicable
qualifying Federal action.

(D) A causal statement showing how the qualifying Federal action directly
resulted in unrecoverable losses or cessation of the covered energy project
and that absent the qualifying Federal action the project would have otherwise
been viable.

(E) Any supporting economic analysis demonstrating the financial effects of
the covered energy project being rendered unviable.

(3) APPROVAL.—The Secretary shall approve a request submitted under paragraph
(1) and, subject to paragraph (5), provide compensation to the applicable
sponsor if the Secretary determines that such request is complete and in
compliance with the requirements of this section.

(4) LIMITATIONS ON DENIALS.—The Secretary may not deny a request submitted
under paragraph (1) based on—

(A) the merit of the applicable covered energy project, as determined by the
Secretary; or

(B) the type of technology used in the applicable covered energy project.

(5) LIMITATIONS ON COMPENSATION AMOUNT.—

(A) SPONSORS.—The amount of compensation provided to a sponsor under this
subsection with respect to a covered energy project shall not exceed the
sponsor capital contribution for the covered energy project.

(B) AVAILABLE FUNDS.—In determining the amount of compensation to be provided
to a sponsor under this subsection—

(i) such amount may be any amount, including zero, that is less than or equal
to the amount of the sponsor capital contribution for the covered energy
project, regardless of the amount of capital expenditures made by the sponsor
(as certified and included in the request pursuant to paragraph (2)(B)); and

(ii) the Secretary shall determine such amount in a manner that ensures no
funds will be obligated or expended in amounts that exceed the amounts in the
Fund at the time of approval of the applicable request submitted under
paragraph (1).

(e) De-Risking Compensation Fund.—

(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established a fund, to be known as the De-Risking
Compensation Fund, consisting of such amounts as are deposited in the Fund
under this subsection or credited to the Fund under subsection (f).

(2) USE OF FUNDS.—Amounts in the Fund—

(A) shall remain available until September 30, 2034; and

(B) may be used, without further appropriation—

(i) to make compensation payments to sponsors under this section; and

(ii) to administer the program.

(3) LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Not more than 3 percent of amounts
in the Fund may be used to administer the program.

(4) DEPOSITS.—The Secretary shall deposit the fees and premiums received under
subsection (c) into the Fund.

(f) Fund management and investment.—The Fund shall be managed and invested as
follows:

(1) The Fund shall be maintained and administered by the Secretary.

(2) Amounts in the Fund shall be invested in obligations of the United States
in accordance with the requirements of section 9702 of title 31, United States
Code.

(3) The interest on such investments shall be credited to the Fund.

(g) Definitions.—For purposes of this section:

(1) COVERED ENERGY PROJECT.—The term “covered energy project” means a project
located in the United States for the development, extraction, processing,
transportation, or use of coal, coal byproducts, critical minerals, oil,
natural gas, or nuclear energy with a total projected capital expenditure of
not less than $30,000,000, as certified by the Secretary.

(2) FUND.—The term “Fund” means the De-Risking Compensation Fund established
in subsection (e)(1).

(3) PROGRAM.—The term “program” means the De-Risking Compensation Program
established in subsection (b)(1).

(4) QUALIFYING FEDERAL ACTION.—The term “qualifying Federal action” means a
regulation, administrative decision, or executive action—

(A) issued or taken after a sponsor received a Federal approval or permit for
a covered energy project; and

(B) that revokes such approval or permit or cancels, delays, or renders
unviable the covered energy project regardless of whether the regulation,
administrative decision, or executive action is responsive to a court order.

(5) SECRETARY.—The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Energy.

(6) SPONSOR.—The term “sponsor” means an entity incorporated and headquartered
in the United States with an ownership or development interest in a covered
energy project.

(7) SPONSOR CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION.—The term “sponsor capital contribution”
means the projected capital expenditure of a sponsor for a covered energy
project, as certified by the Secretary at the time of enrollment in the
program, which shall include verifiable development, construction, permitting,
and financing costs directly related to the covered energy project.

SEC. 41006. Strategic Petroleum Reserve.

(a) Appropriations.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2025, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until
September 30, 2029—

(1) $218,000,000 for maintenance of, including repairs to, storage facilities
and related facilities (as such terms are defined in section 152 of the Energy
Policy and Conservation Act ([42 U.S.C.
6232](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=6232))) of
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve; and

(2) $1,321,000,000 to acquire, by purchase, petroleum products for storage in
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.

(b) Repeal of strategic petroleum reserve drawdown and sale mandate.—Section
20003 of [Public Law
115–97](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ97/pdf/PLAW-115publ97.pdf)
([42 U.S.C.
6241](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=6241) note)
is repealed.

subtitle B—Environment

PART 1—Repeals and Rescissions

SEC. 42101. Repeal and rescission relating to clean heavy-duty vehicles.

(a) Repeal.—Section 132 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7432](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7432)) is
repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 132 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7432](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7432)) (as
in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is rescinded.

SEC. 42102. Repeal and rescission relating to grants to reduce air pollution
at ports.

(a) Repeal.—Section 133 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7433](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7433)) is
repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 133 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7433](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7433)) (as
in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is rescinded.

SEC. 42103. Repeal and rescission relating to Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund.

(a) Repeal.—Section 134 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7434](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7434)) is
repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 134 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7434](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7434)) (as
in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is rescinded.

SEC. 42104.  Repeal and rescission relating to diesel emissions reductions.

(a) Repeal.—Section 60104 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
is repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 60104 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is
rescinded.

SEC. 42105. Repeal and rescission relating to funding to address air
pollution.

(a) Repeal.—Section 60105 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
is repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 60105 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is
rescinded.

SEC. 42106.  Repeal and rescission relating to funding to address air
pollution at schools.

(a) Repeal.—Section 60106 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
is repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 60106 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is
rescinded.

SEC. 42107. Repeal and rescission relating to low emissions electricity
program.

(a) Repeal.—Section 135 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7435](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7435)) is
repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 135 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7435](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7435)) (as
in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is rescinded.

SEC. 42108.  REPEAL AND RESCISSION RELATING TO FUNDING FOR SECTION 211(o) OF
THE CLEAN AIR ACT.

(a) Repeal.—Section 60108 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
is repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 60108 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is
rescinded.

SEC. 42109.  Repeal and rescission relating to funding for implementation of
the American Innovation and Manufacturing Act.

(a) Repeal.—Section 60109 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
is repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 60109 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is
rescinded.

SEC. 42110.  Repeal and rescission relating to funding for enforcement
technology and public information.

(a) Repeal.—Section 60110 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
is repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 60110 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is
rescinded.

SEC. 42111.  Repeal and rescission relating to greenhouse gas corporate
reporting.

(a) Repeal.—Section 60111 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
is repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 60111 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is
rescinded.

SEC. 42112.  Repeal and rescission relating to environmental product
declaration assistance.

(a) Repeal.—Section 60112 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
([42 U.S.C.
4321](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=4321) note)
is repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 60112 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
([42 U.S.C.
4321](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=4321) note)
(as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is
rescinded.

SEC. 42113. Repeal of funding for methane emissions and waste reduction
incentive program for petroleum and natural gas systems.

(a) Repeal and rescission.—Subsections (a) and (b) of section 136 of the Clean
Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7436](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7436)) are
repealed and the unobligated balances of amounts made available under those
subsections (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act)
are rescinded.

(b) Conforming amendments.—Section 136 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7436](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7436)) is
amended—

(1) by redesignating subsections (c) through (i) as subsections (a) through
(g), respectively;

(2) by striking “subsection (c)” each place it appears and inserting
“subsection (a)”;

(3) by striking “subsection (d)” each place it appears and inserting
“subsection (b)”;

(4) by striking “subsection (f)” each place it appears and inserting
“subsection (d)”;

(5) in subsection (e) (as so redesignated), by striking “calendar year 2024”
and inserting “calendar year 2034”; and

(6) in subsection (f) (as so redesignated)—

(A) by striking “subsections (e) and (f)” and inserting “subsections (c) and
(d)”; and

(B) by striking “including data collected pursuant to subsection (a)(4),”.

SEC. 42114. Repeal and rescission relating to greenhouse gas air pollution
plans and implementation grants.

(a) Repeal.—Section 137 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7437](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7437)) is
repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 137 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7437](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7437)) (as
in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is rescinded.

SEC. 42115.  Repeal and rescission relating to Environmental Protection Agency
efficient, accurate, and timely reviews.

(a) Repeal.—Section 60115 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
is repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 60115 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is
rescinded.

SEC. 42116.  Repeal and rescission relating to low-embodied carbon labeling
for construction materials.

(a) Repeal.—Section 60116 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
([42 U.S.C.
4321](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=4321) note)
is repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 60116 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
([42 U.S.C.
4321](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=4321) note)
(as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is
rescinded.

SEC. 42117. Repeal and rescission relating to environmental and climate
justice block grants.

(a) Repeal.—Section 138 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7438](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7438)) is
repealed.

(b) Rescission.—The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under
section 138 of the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C.
7438](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=7438)) (as
in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) is rescinded.

PART 2—Repeal of EPA rules relating to greenhouse gas and multi-pollutant
emissions standards

SEC. 42201. Repeal of EPA rules relating to greenhouse gas and multi-pollutant
emissions standards.

The final rules issued by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to
“Revised 2023 and Later Model Year Light-Duty Vehicle Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Standards” (86 Fed. Reg. 74434 (December 30, 2021)) and “Multi-Pollutant
Emissions Standards for Model Years 2027 and Later Light-Duty and Medium-Duty
Vehicles” (89 Fed. Reg. 27842 (April 18, 2024)) shall have no force or effect.

PART 3—Repeal of NHTSA rules relating to CAFE standards

SEC. 42301. Repeal of NHTSA rules relating to CAFE standards.

The final rules issued by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
relating to “Corporate Average Fuel Economy Standards for Model Years
2024–2026 Passenger Cars and Light Trucks” (87 Fed. Reg. 25710 (May 2, 2022))
and “Corporate Average Fuel Economy Standards for Passenger Cars and Light
Trucks for Model Years 2027 and Beyond and Fuel Efficiency Standards for
Heavy-Duty Pickup Trucks and Vans for Model Years 2030 and Beyond” (89 Fed.
Reg. 52540 (June 24, 2024)) shall have no force or effect.

subtitle C—Communications

PART 1—Spectrum Auctions

SEC. 43101. Identification and auction of spectrum.

(a) Identification.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Assistant Secretary and the Commission shall identify, from spectrum
in the covered band that is allocated for Federal use, non-Federal use, or
shared Federal and non-Federal use, a total of not less than 600 megahertz of
spectrum for reallocation for non-Federal use on an exclusive, licensed basis
for mobile broadband services, fixed broadband services, mobile and fixed
broadband services, or a combination thereof.

(2) WITHDRAWAL OR MODIFICATION OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ASSIGNMENTS.—The
President, acting through the Assistant Secretary, shall—

(A) withdraw or modify the assignments to Federal Government stations of
spectrum identified under paragraph (1) as necessary for the Commission to
comply with subsection (b); and

(B) not later than 30 days after completing any necessary withdrawal or
modification under subparagraph (A), notify the Commission that the withdrawal
or modification is complete.

(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this subsection may be construed to
change the respective authorities of the Assistant Secretary and the
Commission with respect to spectrum allocated for Federal use, non-Federal
use, or shared Federal and non-Federal use.

(b) Auction.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall, through 1 or more systems of competitive
bidding under section 309(j) of the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C.
309(j)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=47&section=309)),
grant licenses for the use of the spectrum identified under subsection (a) on
an exclusive, licensed basis for mobile broadband services, fixed broadband
services, mobile and fixed broadband services, or a combination thereof.

(2) SCHEDULE.—Notwithstanding paragraph (15)(A) of section 309(j) of the
Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C.
309(j)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=47&section=309)),
the Commission shall auction spectrum under paragraph (1) of this subsection
according to the following schedule:

(A) Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commission shall complete 1 or more systems of competitive bidding for not
less than 200 megahertz of such spectrum.

(B) Not later than 6 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commission shall complete 1 or more systems of competitive bidding for any
remaining spectrum required to be auctioned under paragraph (1) after
compliance with subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.

(c) Auction proceeds to cover 110 percent of Federal relocation or sharing
costs.—Nothing in this section may be construed to relieve the Commission from
the requirements of section 309(j)(16)(B) of the Communications Act of 1934
([47 U.S.C.
309(j)(16)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=47&section=309)).

(d) Auction authority.—Section 309(j)(11) of the Communications Act of 1934
([47 U.S.C.
309(j)(11)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=47&section=309))
is amended by striking “grant a license or permit under this subsection shall
expire March 9, 2023” and all that follows and inserting “complete a system of
competitive bidding under this subsection shall expire September 30, 2034.”.

(e) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) ASSISTANT SECRETARY.—The term “Assistant Secretary” means the Assistant
Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information.

(2) COMMISSION.—The term “Commission” means the Federal Communications
Commission.

(3) COVERED BAND.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—The term “covered band” means the band of frequencies between
1.3 gigahertz and 10 gigahertz, inclusive.

(B) EXCLUSION.—The term “covered band” does not include the following:

(i) The band of frequencies between 3.1 gigahertz and 3.45 gigahertz,
inclusive.

(ii) The band of frequencies between 5.925 gigahertz and 7.125 gigahertz,
inclusive.

PART 2—Artificial Intelligence and Information Technology Modernization

SEC. 43201. Artificial intelligence and information technology modernization
initiative.

(a) Appropriation of funds.—There is hereby appropriated to the Department of
Commerce for fiscal year 2025, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, $500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2034, to
modernize and secure Federal information technology systems through the
deployment of commercial artificial intelligence, the deployment of automation
technologies, and the replacement of antiquated business systems in accordance
with subsection (b).

(b) Authorized uses.—The Secretary of Commerce shall use the funds
appropriated under subsection (a) for the following:

(1) To replace or modernize, within the Department of Commerce, legacy
business systems with state-of-the-art commercial artificial intelligence
systems and automated decision systems.

(2) To facilitate, within the Department of Commerce, the adoption of
artificial intelligence models that increase operational efficiency and
service delivery.

(3) To improve, within the Department of Commerce, the cybersecurity posture
of Federal information technology systems through modernized architecture,
automated threat detection, and integrated artificial intelligence solutions.

(c) Moratorium.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), no State or political
subdivision thereof may enforce, during the 10-year period beginning on the
date of the enactment of this Act, any law or regulation of that State or a
political subdivision thereof limiting, restricting, or otherwise regulating
artificial intelligence models, artificial intelligence systems, or automated
decision systems entered into interstate commerce.

(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Paragraph (1) may not be construed to prohibit the
enforcement of—

(A) any law or regulation that—

(i) the primary purpose and effect of which is to—

(I) remove legal impediments to, or facilitate the deployment or operation of,
an artificial intelligence model, artificial intelligence system, or automated
decision system; or

(II) streamline licensing, permitting, routing, zoning, procurement, or
reporting procedures in a manner that facilitates the adoption of artificial
intelligence models, artificial intelligence systems, or automated decision
systems;

(ii) does not impose any substantive design, performance, data-handling,
documentation, civil liability, taxation, fee, or other requirement on
artificial intelligence models, artificial intelligence systems, or automated
decision systems unless such requirement—

(I) is imposed under Federal law; or

(II) in the case of a requirement imposed under a generally applicable law, is
imposed in the same manner on models and systems, other than artificial
intelligence models, artificial intelligence systems, and automated decision
systems, that provide comparable functions to artificial intelligence models,
artificial intelligence systems, or automated decision systems; and

(iii) does not impose a fee or bond unless—

(I) such fee or bond is reasonable and cost-based; and

(II) under such fee or bond, artificial intelligence models, artificial
intelligence systems, and automated decision systems are treated in the same
manner as other models and systems that perform comparable functions; or

(B) any provision of a law or regulation to the extent that the violation of
such provision carries a criminal penalty.

(d) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.—The term “artificial intelligence” has the
meaning given such term in section 5002 of the National Artificial
Intelligence Initiative Act of 2020 ([15 U.S.C.
9401](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=9401)).

(2) ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE MODEL.—The term “artificial intelligence model”
means a software component of an information system that implements artificial
intelligence technology and uses computational, statistical, or machine-
learning techniques to produce outputs from a defined set of inputs.

(3) ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM.—The term “artificial intelligence system”
means any data system, hardware, tool, or utility that operates, in whole or
in part, using artificial intelligence.

(4) AUTOMATED DECISION SYSTEM.—The term “automated decision system” means any
computational process derived from machine learning, statistical modeling,
data analytics, or artificial intelligence that issues a simplified output,
including a score, classification, or recommendation, to materially influence
or replace human decision making.

subtitle D—Health

PART 1—Medicaid

subpart A—Reducing fraud and improving enrollment processes

SEC. 44101.  Moratorium on implementation of rule relating to eligibility and
enrollment in Medicare Savings Programs.

The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall not, during the period
beginning on the date of the enactment of this section and ending January 1,
2035, implement, administer, or enforce the provisions of the final rule
published by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services on September 21,
2023, and titled “Streamlining Medicaid; Medicare Savings Program Eligibility
Determination and Enrollment” (88 Fed. Reg. 65230).

SEC. 44102. Moratorium on implementation of rule relating to eligibility and
enrollment for Medicaid, CHIP, and the Basic Health Program.

The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall not, during the period
beginning on the date of the enactment of this section and ending January 1,
2035, implement, administer, or enforce the provisions of the final rule
published by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services on April 2, 2024,
and titled “Medicaid Program; Streamlining the Medicaid, Children's Health
Insurance Program, and Basic Health Program Application, Eligibility
Determination, Enrollment, and Renewal Processes” (89 Fed. Reg. 22780).

SEC. 44103. Ensuring appropriate address verification under the Medicaid and
CHIP programs.

(a) Medicaid.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1902 of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a)) is
amended—

(A) in subsection (a)—

(i) in paragraph (86), by striking “and” at the end;

(ii) in paragraph (87), by striking the period and inserting “; and”; and

(iii) by inserting after paragraph (87) the following new paragraph:

“(88) provide—

“(A) beginning not later than January 1, 2027, in the case of 1 of the 50
States and the District of Columbia, for a process to regularly obtain address
information for individuals enrolled under such plan (or a waiver of such
plan) in accordance with subsection (vv); and

“(B) beginning not later than October 1, 2029—

“(i) for the State to submit to the system established by the Secretary under
subsection (uu), with respect to an individual enrolled or seeking to enroll
under such plan, not less frequently than once each month and during each
determination or redetermination of the eligibility of such individual for
medical assistance under such plan (or waiver of such plan)—

“(I) the social security number of such individual, if such individual has a
social security number and is required to provide such number to enroll under
such plan (or waiver); and

“(II) such other information with respect to such individual as determined
necessary by the Secretary for purposes of preventing individuals from
simultaneously being enrolled under State plans (or waivers of such plans) of
multiple States;

“(ii) for the use of such system to prevent such simultaneous enrollment; and

“(iii) in the case that such system indicates that an individual enrolled or
seeking to enroll under such plan (or wavier of such plan) is enrolled under a
State plan (or waiver of such a plan) of another State, for the taking of
appropriate action (as determined by the Secretary) to identify whether such
an individual resides in the State and disenroll an individual from the State
plan of such State if such individual does not reside in such State (unless
such individual meets such an exception as the Secretary may specify).”; and

(B) by adding at the end the following new subsections:

“(uu) Prevention of enrollment under multiple State plans.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than October 1, 2029, the Secretary shall establish
a system to be utilized by the Secretary and States to prevent an individual
from being simultaneously enrolled under the State plans (or waivers of such
plans) of multiple States. Such system shall—

“(A) provide for the receipt of information submitted by a State under
subsection (a)(88)(B)(i); and

“(B) not less than once each month, notify or transmit information to a State
(or allow the Secretary to notify or transmit information to a State)
regarding whether an individual enrolled or seeking to enroll under the State
plan of such State (or waiver of such plan) is enrolled under the State plan
(or waiver of such plan) of another State.

“(2) STANDARDS.—The Secretary shall establish such standards as determined
necessary by the Secretary to limit and protect information submitted under
such system and ensure the privacy of such information, consistent with
subsection (a)(7).

“(3) IMPLEMENTATION FUNDING.—There are appropriated to the Secretary, out of
amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, in addition to amounts
otherwise available—

“(A) for fiscal year 2026, $10,000,000 for purposes of establishing the system
required under this subsection, to remain available until expended; and

“(B) for fiscal year 2029, $20,000,000 for purposes of maintaining such
system, to remain available until expended.

“(vv) Process to obtain enrollee address information.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of subsection (a)(88)(A), a process to regularly
obtain address information for individuals enrolled under a State plan (or a
waiver of such plan) shall obtain address information from reliable data
sources described in paragraph (2) and take such actions as the Secretary
shall specify with respect to any changes to such address based on such
information.

“(2) RELIABLE DATA SOURCES DESCRIBED.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the
reliable data sources described in this paragraph are the following:

“(A) Mail returned to the State by the United States Postal Service with a
forwarding address.

“(B) The National Change of Address Database maintained by the United States
Postal Service.

“(C) A managed care entity (as defined in section 1932(a)(1)(B)) or prepaid
inpatient health plan or prepaid ambulatory health plan (as such terms are
defined in section 1903(m)(9)(D)) that has a contract under the State plan if
the address information is provided to such entity or plan directly from, or
verified by such entity or plan directly with, such individual.

“(D) Other data sources as identified by the State and approved by the
Secretary.”.

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—

(A) PARIS.—Section 1903(r)(3) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396b(r)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396b))
is amended—

(i) by striking “In order” and inserting  (A) In order”;

(ii) by striking “through the Public” and inserting “through—

“(i) the Public”;

(iii) by striking the period at the end and inserting “; and

“(ii) beginning October 1, 2029, the system established by the Secretary under
section 1902(uu).”; and

(iv) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(B) Beginning October 1, 2029, the Secretary may determine that a State is
not required to have in operation an eligibility determination system which
provides for data matching through the system described in subparagraph (A)(i)
to meet the requirements of this paragraph.”.

(B) MANAGED CARE.—Section 1932 of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396u–2](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396u-2))
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(j) Transmission of address information.—Beginning January 1, 2027, each
contract under a State plan with a managed care entity (as defined in section
1932(a)(1)(B)) or with a prepaid inpatient health plan or prepaid ambulatory
health plan (as such terms are defined in section 1903(m)(9)(D)), shall
provide that such entity or plan shall promptly transmit to the State any
address information for an individual enrolled with such entity or plan that
is provided to such entity or plan directly from, or verified by such entity
or plan directly with, such individual.”.

(b) CHIP.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 2107(e)(1) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1397gg(e)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1397gg))
is amended—

(A) by redesignating subparagraphs (H) through (U) as subparagraphs (I)
through (V), respectively; and

(B) by inserting after subparagraph (G) the following new subparagraph:

“(H) Section 1902(a)(88) (relating to address information for enrollees and
prevention of simultaneous enrollments).”.

(2) MANAGED CARE.—Section 2103(f)(3) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1397cc(f)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1397cc))
is amended by striking “and (e)” and inserting “(e), and (j)”.

SEC. 44104.  Modifying certain State requirements for ensuring deceased
individuals do not remain enrolled.

Section 1902 of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a)),
as amended by section 44103, is further amended—

(1) in subsection (a)—

(A) in paragraph (87), by striking “; and” and inserting a semicolon;

(B) in paragraph (88), by striking the period at the end and inserting “;
and”; and

(C) by inserting after paragraph (88) the following new paragraph:

“(89) provide that the State shall comply with the eligibility verification
requirements under subsection (ww), except that this paragraph shall apply
only in the case of the 50 States and the District of Columbia.”; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(ww) Verification of certain eligibility criteria.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of subsection (a)(89), the eligibility
verification requirements, beginning January 1, 2028, are as follows:

“(A) QUARTERLY SCREENING TO VERIFY ENROLLEE STATUS.—The State shall, not less
frequently than quarterly, review the Death Master File (as such term is
defined in section 203(d) of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013) to determine
whether any individuals enrolled for medical assistance under the State plan
(or waiver of such plan) are deceased.

“(B) DISENROLLMENT UNDER STATE PLAN.—If the State determines, based on
information obtained from the Death Master File, that an individual enrolled
for medical assistance under the State plan (or waiver of such plan) is
deceased, the State shall—

“(i) treat such information as factual information confirming the death of a
beneficiary for purposes of section 431.213(a) of title 42, Code of Federal
Regulations;

“(ii) disenroll such individual from the State plan (or waiver of such plan);
and

“(iii) discontinue any payments for medical assistance under this title made
on behalf of such individual (other than payments for any items or services
furnished to such individual prior to the death of such individual).

“(C) REINSTATEMENT OF COVERAGE IN THE EVENT OF ERROR.—If a State determines
that an individual was misidentified as deceased based on information obtained
from the Death Master File and was erroneously disenrolled from medical
assistance under the State plan (or waiver of such plan) based on such
misidentification, the State shall immediately re-enroll such individual under
the State plan (or waiver of such plan), retroactive to the date of such
disenrollment.

“(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing under this subsection shall be construed to
preclude the ability of a State to use other electronic data sources to timely
identify potentially deceased beneficiaries, so long as the State is also in
compliance with the requirements of this subsection (and all other
requirements under this title relating to Medicaid eligibility determination
and redetermination).”.

SEC. 44105. Medicaid provider screening requirements.

Section 1902(kk)(1) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a(kk)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a))
is amended—

(1) by striking “The State” and inserting:

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The State”; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(B) ADDITIONAL PROVIDER SCREENING.—Beginning January 1, 2028, as part of the
enrollment (or reenrollment or revalidation of enrollment) of a provider or
supplier under this title, and not less frequently than monthly during the
period that such provider or supplier is so enrolled, the State conducts a
check of any database or similar system developed pursuant to section
6401(b)(2) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to determine
whether the Secretary has terminated the participation of such provider or
supplier under title XVIII, or whether any other State has terminated the
participation of such provider or supplier under such other State’s State plan
under this title (or waiver of the plan), or such other State’s State child
health plan under title XXI (or waiver of the plan).”.

SEC. 44106. Additional Medicaid provider screening requirements.

Section 1902(kk)(1) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a(kk)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a)),
as amended by section 44105, is further amended by adding at the end the
following new subparagraph:

“(C) PROVIDER SCREENING AGAINST DEATH MASTER FILE.—Beginning January 1, 2028,
as part of the enrollment (or reenrollment or revalidation of enrollment) of a
provider or supplier under this title, and not less frequently than quarterly
during the period that such provider or supplier is so enrolled, the State
conducts a check of the Death Master File (as such term is defined in section
203(d) of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013) to determine whether such
provider or supplier is deceased.”.

SEC. 44107. Removing good faith waiver for payment reduction related to
certain erroneous excess payments under Medicaid.

(a) In general.—Section 1903(u)(1) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396b(u)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396b))
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (B)—

(A) by striking “The Secretary” and inserting  (i) Subject to clause (ii), the
Secretary”; and

(B) by adding at the end the following new clause:

“(ii) The amount waived under clause (i) for a fiscal year may not exceed an
amount equal to the difference between—

“(I) the amount of the reduction required under subparagraph (A) for such
fiscal year (without application of this subparagraph); and

“(II) the sum of the erroneous excess payments for medical assistance
described in subclauses (I) and (III) of subparagraph (D)(i) made for such
fiscal year.”;

(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking “he” in each place it appears and
inserting “the Secretary” in each such place; and

(3) in subparagraph (D)—

(A) in clause (i)—

(i) in subclause (I), by striking “and” at the end;

(ii) in subclause (II), by striking the period at the end and inserting “,
and”; and

(iii) by adding at the end the following new subclause:

“(III) payments (other than payments described in subclause (I)) for items and
services furnished to an eligible individual who is not eligible for medical
assistance under the State plan (or a waiver of such plan) with respect to
such items and services.”; and

(B) by adding at the end the following new clause:

“(vi) In determining the amount of erroneous excess payments for medical
assistance under clause (i), the Secretary shall include any payments
described in such clause that are identified under the payment error rate
measurement (PERM) program, the Medicaid Eligibility Quality Control (MEQC)
program, an audit conducted by the Inspector General of the Department of
Health and Human Services, or any other independent audit made by the
Secretary.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply
beginning with respect to fiscal year 2030.

SEC. 44108. Increasing frequency of eligibility redeterminations for certain
individuals.

Section 1902(e)(14) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a(e)(14)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a))
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(L) FREQUENCY OF ELIGIBILITY REDETERMINATIONS FOR CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS.—With
respect to redeterminations of eligibility for medical assistance under a
State plan (or waiver of such plan) scheduled on or after December 31, 2026, a
State shall make such a redetermination once every 6 months for the following
individuals:

“(i) Individuals enrolled under subsection (a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII).

“(ii) Individuals described in such subsection who are otherwise enrolled
under a waiver of such plan that provides coverage that is equivalent to
minimum essential coverage (as described in [section
5000A(f)(1)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=5000A)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and determined in accordance with
standards prescribed by the Secretary in regulations) to all individuals
described in subsection (a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII).”.

SEC. 44109. Revising home equity limit for determining eligibility for long-
term care services under the Medicaid program.

(a) Revising home equity limit.—Section 1917(f)(1) of the Social Security Act
([42 U.S.C.
1396p(f)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396p))
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (B)—

(A) by striking “A State” and inserting “(i) A State”;

(B) in clause (i), as inserted by subparagraph (A)—

(i) by striking “ ‘$500,000’” and inserting “the amount specified in
subparagraph (A)”; and

(ii) by inserting “, in the case of an individual’s home that is located on a
lot that is zoned for agricultural use,” after “apply subparagraph (A)”; and

(C) by adding at the end the following new clause:

“(ii) A State may elect, without regard to the requirements of section
1902(a)(1) (relating to statewideness) and section 1902(a)(10)(B) (relating to
comparability), to apply subparagraph (A), in the case of an individual’s home
that is not described in clause (i), by substituting for the amount specified
in such subparagraph, an amount that exceeds such amount, but does not exceed
$1,000,000.”; and

(2) in subparagraph (C)—

(A) by inserting “(other than the amount specified in subparagraph (B)(ii)
(relating to certain non-agricultural homes))” after “specified in this
paragraph”; and

(B) by adding at the end the following new sentence: “In the case that
application of the preceding sentence would result in a dollar amount (other
than the amount specified in subparagraph (B)(i) (relating to certain
agricultural homes)) exceeding $1,000,000, such amount shall be deemed to be
equal to $1,000,000.”.

(b) Clarification.—Section 1902 of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (r)(2), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) This paragraph shall not be construed as permitting a State to determine
the eligibility of an individual for medical assistance with respect to
nursing facility services or other long-term care services without application
of the limit under section 1917(f)(1).”; and

(2) in subsection (e)(14)(D)(iv)—

(A) by striking “Subparagraphs” and inserting

“(I) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraphs”; and

(B) by adding at the end the following new subclause:

“(II) APPLICATION OF HOME EQUITY INTEREST LIMIT.—Section 1917(f) shall apply
for purposes of determining the eligibility of an individual for medical
assistance with respect to nursing facility services or other long-term care
services.”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply
beginning on January 1, 2028.

SEC. 44110. Prohibiting Federal financial participation under Medicaid and
CHIP for individuals without verified citizenship, nationality, or
satisfactory immigration status.

(a) In general.—

(1) MEDICAID.—Section 1903(i)(22) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396b(i)(22)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396b))
is amended—

(A) by adding “and” at the end;

(B) by striking “to amounts” and inserting “to—

“(A) amounts”; and

(C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(B) in the case that the State elects under section 1902(a)(46)(C) to provide
for making medical assistance available to an individual during—

“(i) the period in which the individual is provided the reasonable opportunity
to present satisfactory documentary evidence of citizenship or nationality
under section 1902(ee)(2)(C) or subsection (x)(4);

“(ii) the 90-day period described in section 1902(ee)(1)(B)(ii)(II); or

“(iii) the period in which the individual is provided the reasonable
opportunity to submit evidence indicating a satisfactory immigration status
under section 1137(d)(4),

amounts expended for such medical assistance, unless the citizenship or
nationality of such individual or the satisfactory immigration status of such
individual (as applicable) is verified by the end of such period;”.

(2) CHIP.—Section 2107(e)(1)(N) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1397gg(e)(1)(N)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1397gg))
is amended by striking “and (17)” and inserting “(17), and (22)”.

(b) Eliminating State requirement to provide medical assistance during
reasonable opportunity period.—

(1) DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE OF CITIZENSHIP OR NATIONALITY.—Section 1903(x)(4) of
the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396b(x)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396b))
is amended—

(A) by striking “under clauses (i) and (ii) of section 1137(d)(4)(A)” and
inserting “under section 1137(d)(4)”; and

(B) by inserting “, except that the State shall not be required to make
medical assistance available to such individual during the period in which
such individual is provided such reasonable opportunity if the State has not
elected the option under section 1902(a)(46)(C)” before the period at the end.

(2) SOCIAL SECURITY DATA MATCH.—Section 1902(ee) of the Social Security Act
([42 U.S.C.
1396a(ee)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a))
is amended—

(A) in paragraph (1)(B)(ii)—

(i) in subclause (II), by striking “(and continues to provide the individual
with medical assistance during such 90-day period)” and inserting “and, if the
State has elected the option under subsection (a)(46)(C), continues to provide
the individual with medical assistance during such 90-day period”; and

(ii) in subclause (III), by inserting “, or denies eligibility for medical
assistance under this title for such individual, as applicable” after “under
this title”; and

(B) in paragraph (2)(C)—

(i) by striking “under clauses (i) and (ii) of section 1137(d)(4)(A)” and
inserting “under section 1137(d)(4)”; and

(ii) by inserting “, except that the State shall not be required to make
medical assistance available to such individual during the period in which
such individual is provided such reasonable opportunity if the State has not
elected the option under section 1902(a)(46)(C)” before the period at the end.

(3) INDIVIDUALS WITH SATISFACTORY IMMIGRATION STATUS.—Section 1137(d)(4) of
the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1320b–7(d)(4)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1320b-7))
is amended—

(A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by inserting “(except that such prohibition on
delay, denial, reduction, or termination of eligibility for benefits under the
Medicaid program under title XIX shall apply only if the State has elected the
option under section 1902(a)(46)(C))” after “has been provided”; and

(B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by inserting “(except that such prohibition on
delay, denial, reduction, or termination of eligibility for benefits under the
Medicaid program under title XIX shall apply only if the State has elected the
option under section 1902(a)(46)(C))” after “status”.

(c) Option to continue providing medical assistance during reasonable
opportunity period.—

(1) MEDICAID.—Section 1902(a)(46) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a(a)(46)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a))
is amended—

(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking “and” at the end;

(B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by adding “and” at the end; and

(C) by inserting after subparagraph (B)(ii) the following new subparagraph:

“(C) provide, at the option of the State, for making medical assistance
available—

“(i) to an individual described in subparagraph (B) during the period in which
such individual is provided the reasonable opportunity to present satisfactory
documentary evidence of citizenship or nationality under subsection (ee)(2)(C)
or section 1903(x)(4), or during the 90-day period described in subsection
(ee)(1)(B)(ii)(II); or

“(ii) to an individual who is not a citizen or national of the United States
during the period in which such individual is provided the reasonable
opportunity to submit evidence indicating a satisfactory immigration status
under section 1137(d)(4);”.

(2) CHIP.—Section 2105(c)(9) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1397ee(c)(9)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1397ee))
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) OPTION TO CONTINUE PROVIDING CHILD HEALTH ASSISTANCE DURING REASONABLE
OPPORTUNITY PERIOD.—Section 1902(a)(46)(C) shall apply to States under this
title in the same manner as it applies to a State under title XIX.”.

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply beginning
October 1, 2026.

SEC. 44111. Reducing expansion FMAP for certain States providing payments for
health care furnished to certain individuals.

Section 1905 of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1395d](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1395d)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (y)—

(A) in paragraph (1)(E), by inserting “(or, for calendar quarters beginning on
or after October 1, 2027, in the case such State is a specified State with
respect to such calendar quarter, 80 percent)” after “thereafter”; and

(B) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) SPECIFIED STATE.—The term ‘specified State’ means, with respect to a
quarter, a State that—

“(i) provides any form of financial assistance during such quarter, in whole
or in part, whether or not made under a State plan (or waiver of such plan)
under this title or under another program established by the State, and
regardless of the source of funding for such assistance, to or on behalf of an
alien who is not a qualified alien and is not a child or pregnant woman who is
lawfully residing in the United States and receiving medical assistance
pursuant to section 1903(v)(4), for the purchasing of health insurance
coverage (as defined in section 2791(b)(1) of the Public Health Service Act)
for an alien who is not a qualified alien and is not such a child or pregnant
woman; or

“(ii) provides any form of comprehensive health benefits coverage during such
quarter, whether or not under a State plan (or wavier of such plan) under this
title or under another program established by the State, and regardless of the
source of funding for such coverage, to an alien who is not a qualified alien
and is not such a child or pregnant woman.

“(D) IMMIGRATION TERMS.—

“(i) ALIEN.—The term ‘alien’ has the meaning given such term in section 101(a)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

“(ii) QUALIFIED ALIEN.—The term ‘qualified alien’ has the meaning given such
term in section 431 of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity
Reconciliation Act of 1996, except that—

“(I) such term does not include an alien described in subsection (b)(4) of
such section (other than a qualified alien under section 402(b)(2) of such
Act);

“(II) the reference to ‘at the time the alien applies for, receives, or
attempts to receive a Federal public benefit’ in subsection (b) of such
section 431 shall be treated as a reference to ‘at the time the alien is
provided comprehensive health benefits coverage described in clause (ii) of
section 1905(y)(C) of the Social Security Act or is provided with financial
assistance described in clause (i) of such section, as applicable’; and

“(III) the references to ‘(in the opinion of the agency providing such
benefits)’ in subsection (c) of such section 431 shall be treated as
references to ‘(in the opinion of the State in which such comprehensive health
benefits coverage or such financial assistance is provided, as applicable)’.”;
and

(2) in subsection (z)(2)—

(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking “for such year” and inserting “for such
quarter”; and

(B) in subparagraph (B)(i)—

(i) in the matter preceding subclause (I), by striking “for a year” and
inserting “for a calendar quarter in a year”; and

(ii) in subclause (II), by striking “for the year” and inserting “for the
quarter for the State”.

subpart B—Preventing wasteful spending

SEC. 44121.  Moratorium on implementation of rule relating to staffing
standards for long-term care facilities under the Medicare and Medicaid
programs.

The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall not, during the period
beginning on the date of the enactment of this section and ending January 1,
2035, implement, administer, or enforce the provisions of the final rule
published by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services on May 10, 2024, and
titled “Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Minimum Staffing Standards for Long-
Term Care Facilities and Medicaid Institutional Payment Transparency
Reporting” (89 Fed. Reg. 40876).

SEC. 44122. Modifying retroactive coverage under the Medicaid and CHIP
programs.

(a) In general.—Section 1902(a)(34) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a(a)(34)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a))
is amended—

(1) by striking “him” and inserting “the individual”;

(2) by striking “the third month” and inserting “the month”;

(3) by striking “he” and inserting “the individual”; and

(4) by striking “his” and inserting “the individual’s”.

(b) Definition of medical assistance.—Section 1905(a) of the Social Security
Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396d(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396d))
is amended by striking “in or after the third month before the month in which
the recipient makes application for assistance” and inserting “in or after the
month before the month in which the recipient makes application for
assistance”.

(c) CHIP.—Section 2102(b)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1397bb(b)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1397bb))
is amended—

(1) in clause (iv), by striking “and” at the end;

(2) in clause (v), by striking the period and inserting “; and”; and

(3) by adding at the end the following new clause:

“(vi) shall, in the case that the State elects to provide child health or
pregnancy-related assistance to an individual for any period prior to the
month in which the individual made application for such assistance (or
application was made on behalf of the individual), provide that such
assistance is not made available to such individual for items and services
included under the State child health plan (or waiver of such plan) that are
furnished before the month preceding the month in which such individual made
application (or application was made on behalf of such individual) for such
assistance.”.

(d) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to medical
assistance and child health assistance, and pregnancy-related assistance with
respect to individuals whose eligibility for such medical assistance, child
health assistance, or pregnancy-related assistance is based on an application
made on or after December 31, 2026.

SEC. 44123.  Ensuring accurate payments to pharmacies under Medicaid.

(a) In general.—Section 1927(f) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396r–8(f)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396r-8))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (1)(A)—

(A) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii); and

(B) by striking “and” after the semicolon at the end of clause (i) and all
that precedes it through “(1)” and inserting the following:

“(1) DETERMINING PHARMACY ACTUAL ACQUISITION COSTS.—The Secretary shall
conduct a survey of retail community pharmacy drug prices and applicable non-
retail pharmacy drug prices to determine national average drug acquisition
cost benchmarks (as such term is defined by the Secretary) as follows:

“(A) USE OF VENDOR.—The Secretary may contract services for—

“(i) with respect to retail community pharmacies, the determination of retail
survey prices of the national average drug acquisition cost for covered
outpatient drugs that represent a nationwide average of consumer purchase
prices for such drugs, net of all discounts, rebates, and other price
concessions (to the extent any information with respect to such discounts,
rebates, and other price concessions is available) based on a monthly survey
of such pharmacies;

“(ii) with respect to applicable non-retail pharmacies—

“(I) the determination of survey prices, separate from the survey prices
described in clause (i), of the non-retail national average drug acquisition
cost for covered outpatient drugs that represent a nationwide average of
consumer purchase prices for such drugs, net of all discounts, rebates, and
other price concessions (to the extent any information with respect to such
discounts, rebates, and other price concessions is available) based on a
monthly survey of such pharmacies; and

“(II) at the discretion of the Secretary, for each type of applicable non-
retail pharmacy, the determination of survey prices, separate from the survey
prices described in clause (i) or subclause (I) of this clause, of the
national average drug acquisition cost for such type of pharmacy for covered
outpatient drugs that represent a nationwide average of consumer purchase
prices for such drugs, net of all discounts, rebates, and other price
concessions (to the extent any information with respect to such discounts,
rebates, and other price concessions is available) based on a monthly survey
of such pharmacies; and”;

(2) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1), by striking “subparagraph (A)(ii)”
and inserting “subparagraph (A)(iii)”;

(3) in subparagraph (D) of paragraph (1), by striking clauses (ii) and (iii)
and inserting the following:

“(ii) The vendor must update the Secretary no less often than monthly on the
survey prices for covered outpatient drugs.

“(iii) The vendor must differentiate, in collecting and reporting survey data,
for all cost information collected, whether a pharmacy is a retail community
pharmacy or an applicable non-retail pharmacy, including whether such pharmacy
is an affiliate (as defined in subsection (k)(14)), and, in the case of an
applicable non-retail pharmacy, which type of applicable non-retail pharmacy
it is using the relevant pharmacy type indicators included in the guidance
required by subsection (d)(2) of section 44123 of the Act titled ‘An Act to
provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of H. Con. Res. 14’.”;

(4) by adding at the end of paragraph (1) the following:

“(F) SURVEY REPORTING.—In order to meet the requirement of section
1902(a)(54), a State shall require that any retail community pharmacy or
applicable non-retail pharmacy in the State that receives any payment,
reimbursement, administrative fee, discount, rebate, or other price concession
related to the dispensing of covered outpatient drugs to individuals receiving
benefits under this title, regardless of whether such payment, reimbursement,
administrative fee, discount, rebate, or other price concession is received
from the State or a managed care entity or other specified entity (as such
terms are defined in section 1903(m)(9)(D)) directly or from a pharmacy
benefit manager or another entity that has a contract with the State or a
managed care entity or other specified entity (as so defined), shall respond
to surveys conducted under this paragraph.

“(G) SURVEY INFORMATION.—Information on national drug acquisition prices
obtained under this paragraph shall be made publicly available in a form and
manner to be determined by the Secretary and shall include at least the
following:

“(i) The monthly response rate to the survey including a list of pharmacies
not in compliance with subparagraph (F).

“(ii) The sampling methodology and number of pharmacies sampled monthly.

“(iii) Information on price concessions to pharmacies, including discounts,
rebates, and other price concessions, to the extent that such information may
be publicly released and has been collected by the Secretary as part of the
survey.

“(H) PENALTIES.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv), the Secretary shall
enforce the provisions of this paragraph with respect to a pharmacy through
the establishment of civil money penalties applicable to a retail community
pharmacy or an applicable non-retail pharmacy.

“(ii) BASIS FOR PENALTIES.—The Secretary shall impose a civil money penalty
established under this subparagraph on a retail community pharmacy or
applicable non-retail pharmacy if—

“(I) the retail pharmacy or applicable non-retail pharmacy refuses or
otherwise fails to respond to a request for information about prices in
connection with a survey under this subsection;

“(II) knowingly provides false information in response to such a survey; or

“(III) otherwise fails to comply with the requirements established under this
paragraph.

“(iii) PARAMETERS FOR PENALTIES.—

“(I) IN GENERAL.—A civil money penalty established under this subparagraph may
be assessed with respect to each violation, and with respect to each non-
compliant retail community pharmacy (including a pharmacy that is part of a
chain) or non-compliant applicable non-retail pharmacy (including a pharmacy
that is part of a chain), in an amount not to exceed $100,000 for each such
violation.

“(II) CONSIDERATIONS.—In determining the amount of a civil money penalty
imposed under this subparagraph, the Secretary may consider the size, business
structure, and type of pharmacy involved, as well as the type of violation and
other relevant factors, as determined appropriate by the Secretary.

“(iv) RULE OF APPLICATION.—The provisions of section 1128A (other than
subsections (a) and (b)) shall apply to a civil money penalty under this
subparagraph in the same manner as such provisions apply to a civil money
penalty or proceeding under section 1128A(a).

“(I) LIMITATION ON USE OF APPLICABLE NON-RETAIL PHARMACY PRICING
INFORMATION.—No State shall use pricing information reported by applicable
non-retail pharmacies under subparagraph (A)(ii) to develop or inform payment
methodologies for retail community pharmacies.”;

(5) in paragraph (2)—

(A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting “, including payment rates and
methodologies for determining ingredient cost reimbursement under managed care
entities or other specified entities (as such terms are defined in section
1903(m)(9)(D)),” after “under this title”; and

(B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting “and the basis for such dispensing fees”
before the semicolon;

(6) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5);

(7) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:

“(4) OVERSIGHT.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
Services shall conduct periodic studies of the survey data reported under this
subsection, as appropriate, including with respect to substantial variations
in acquisition costs or other applicable costs, as well as with respect to how
internal transfer prices and related party transactions may influence the
costs reported by pharmacies that are affiliates (as defined in subsection
(k)(13)) or are owned by, controlled by, or related under a common ownership
structure with a wholesaler, distributor, or other entity that acquires
covered outpatient drugs relative to costs reported by pharmacies not
affiliated with such entities. The Inspector General shall provide periodic
updates to Congress on the results of such studies, as appropriate, in a
manner that does not disclose trade secrets or other proprietary information.

“(B) APPROPRIATION.—There is appropriated to the Inspector General of the
Department of Health and Human Services, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2026, to remain available
until expended, to carry out this paragraph.”; and

(8) in paragraph (5), as so redesignated—

(A) by inserting “, and $8,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through
2033,” after “2010”; and

(B) by inserting “Funds appropriated under this paragraph for each of fiscal
years 2026 through 2033 shall remain available until expended.” after the
period.

(b) Definitions.—Section 1927(k) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396r–8(k)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396r-8))
is amended—

(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking “In the section” and
inserting “In this section”; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:

“(12) APPLICABLE NON-RETAIL PHARMACY.—The term ‘applicable non-retail
pharmacy’ means a pharmacy that is licensed as a pharmacy by the State and
that is not a retail community pharmacy, including a pharmacy that dispenses
prescription medications to patients primarily through mail and specialty
pharmacies. Such term does not include nursing home pharmacies, long-term care
facility pharmacies, hospital pharmacies, clinics, charitable or not-for-
profit pharmacies, government pharmacies, or low dispensing pharmacies (as
defined by the Secretary).

“(13) AFFILIATE.—The term ‘affiliate’ means any entity that is owned by,
controlled by, or related under a common ownership structure with a pharmacy
benefit manager or a managed care entity or other specified entity (as such
terms are defined in section 1903(m)(9)(D)).”.

(c) Effective date.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), the amendments made by this section
shall apply beginning on the first day of the first quarter that begins on or
after the date that is 6 months after the date of enactment of this section.

(2) DELAYED APPLICATION TO APPLICABLE NON-RETAIL PHARMACIES.—The pharmacy
survey requirements established by the amendments to section 1927(f) of the
Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396r–8(f)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396r-8))
made by this section shall apply to retail community pharmacies beginning on
the effective date described in paragraph (1), but shall not apply to
applicable non-retail pharmacies until the first day of the first quarter that
begins on or after the date that is 18 months after the date of enactment of
this section.

(d) Identification of applicable non-retail pharmacies.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January 1, 2027, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall publish guidance specifying pharmacies that meet the
definition of applicable non-retail pharmacies (as such term is defined in
subsection (k)(12) of section 1927 of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396r–8](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396r-8)),
as added by subsection (b)), and that will be subject to the survey
requirements under subsection (f)(1) of such section, as amended by subsection
(a).

(2) INCLUSION OF PHARMACY TYPE INDICATORS.—The guidance published under
paragraph (1) shall include pharmacy type indicators to distinguish between
different types of applicable non-retail pharmacies, such as pharmacies that
dispense prescriptions primarily through the mail and pharmacies that dispense
prescriptions that require special handling or distribution. An applicable
non-retail pharmacy may be identified through multiple pharmacy type
indicators.

(e) Implementation.—Implementation of the amendments made by this section
shall be exempt from the requirements of section 553 of title 5, United States
Code.

(f) Nonapplication of paperwork reduction act.—[Chapter
35](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title44-chapter35-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 44, United States Code,
shall not apply to any data collection undertaken by the Secretary of Health
and Human Services under section 1927(f) of the Social Security Act ([42
U.S.C.
1396r–8(f)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396r-8)),
as amended by this section.

SEC. 44124.  Preventing the use of abusive spread pricing in Medicaid.

(a) In general.—Section 1927 of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396r–8](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396r-8))
is amended—

(1) in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(6) TRANSPARENT PRESCRIPTION DRUG PASS-THROUGH PRICING REQUIRED.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—A contract between the State and a pharmacy benefit manager
(referred to in this paragraph as a ‘PBM’), or a contract between the State
and a managed care entity or other specified entity (as such terms are defined
in section 1903(m)(9)(D) and collectively referred to in this paragraph as the
‘entity’) that includes provisions making the entity responsible for coverage
of covered outpatient drugs dispensed to individuals enrolled with the entity,
shall require that payment for such drugs and related administrative services
(as applicable), including payments made by a PBM on behalf of the State or
entity, is based on a transparent prescription drug pass-through pricing model
under which—

“(i) any payment made by the entity or the PBM (as applicable) for such a
drug—

“(I) is limited to—

“(aa) ingredient cost; and

“(bb) a professional dispensing fee that is not less than the professional
dispensing fee that the State would pay if the State were making the payment
directly in accordance with the State plan;

“(II) is passed through in its entirety (except as reduced under Federal or
State laws and regulations in response to instances of waste, fraud, or abuse)
by the entity or PBM to the pharmacy or provider that dispenses the drug; and

“(III) is made in a manner that is consistent with sections 447.502, 447.512,
447.514, and 447.518 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations as if such
requirements applied directly to the entity or the PBM, except that any
payment by the entity or the PBM for the ingredient cost of such drug
purchased by a covered entity (as defined in subsection (a)(5)(B)) may exceed
the actual acquisition cost (as defined in 447.502 of title 42, Code of
Federal Regulations) for such drug if—

“(aa) such drug was subject to an agreement under section 340B of the Public
Health Service Act;

“(bb) such payment for the ingredient cost of such drug does not exceed the
maximum payment that would have been made by the entity or the PBM for the
ingredient cost of such drug if such drug had not been purchased by such
covered entity; and

“(cc) such covered entity reports to the Secretary (in a form and manner
specified by the Secretary), on an annual basis and with respect to payments
for the ingredient costs of such drugs so purchased by such covered entity
that are in excess of the actual acquisition costs for such drugs, the
aggregate amount of such excess;

“(ii) payment to the entity or the PBM (as applicable) for administrative
services performed by the entity or PBM is limited to an administrative fee
that reflects the fair market value (as defined by the Secretary) of such
services;

“(iii) the entity or the PBM (as applicable) makes available to the State, and
the Secretary upon request in a form and manner specified by the Secretary,
all costs and payments related to covered outpatient drugs and accompanying
administrative services (as described in clause (ii)) incurred, received, or
made by the entity or the PBM, broken down (as specified by the Secretary), to
the extent such costs and payments are attributable to an individual covered
outpatient drug, by each such drug, including any ingredient costs,
professional dispensing fees, administrative fees (as described in clause
(ii)), post-sale and post-invoice fees, discounts, or related adjustments such
as direct and indirect remuneration fees, and any and all other remuneration,
as defined by the Secretary; and

“(iv) any form of spread pricing whereby any amount charged or claimed by the
entity or the PBM (as applicable) that exceeds the amount paid to the
pharmacies or providers on behalf of the State or entity, including any post-
sale or post-invoice fees, discounts, or related adjustments such as direct
and indirect remuneration fees or assessments, as defined by the Secretary,
(after allowing for an administrative fee as described in clause (ii)) is not
allowable for purposes of claiming Federal matching payments under this title.

“(B) PUBLICATION OF INFORMATION.—The Secretary shall publish, not less
frequently than on an annual basis and in a manner that does not disclose the
identity of a particular covered entity or organization, information received
by the Secretary pursuant to subparagraph (A)(iii)(III) that is broken out by
State and by each of the following categories of covered entity within each
such State:

“(i) Covered entities described in subparagraph (A) of section 340B(a)(4) of
the Public Health Service Act.

“(ii) Covered entities described in subparagraphs (B) through (K) of such
section.

“(iii) Covered entities described in subparagraph (L) of such section.

“(iv) Covered entities described in subparagraph (M) of such section.

“(v) Covered entities described in subparagraph (N) of such section.

“(vi) Covered entities described in subparagraph (O) of such section.”; and

(2) in subsection (k), as previously amended by this subtitle, by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:

“(14) PHARMACY BENEFIT MANAGER.—The term ‘pharmacy benefit manager’ means any
person or entity that, either directly or through an intermediary, acts as a
price negotiator or group purchaser on behalf of a State, managed care entity
(as defined in section 1903(m)(9)(D)), or other specified entity (as so
defined), or manages the prescription drug benefits provided by a State,
managed care entity, or other specified entity, including the processing and
payment of claims for prescription drugs, the performance of drug utilization
review, the processing of drug prior authorization requests, the managing of
appeals or grievances related to the prescription drug benefits, contracting
with pharmacies, controlling the cost of covered outpatient drugs, or the
provision of services related thereto. Such term includes any person or entity
that acts as a price negotiator (with regard to payment amounts to pharmacies
and providers for a covered outpatient drug or the net cost of the drug) or
group purchaser on behalf of a State, managed care entity, or other specified
entity or that carries out 1 or more of the other activities described in the
preceding sentence, irrespective of whether such person or entity calls itself
a pharmacy benefit manager.”.

(b) Conforming amendments.—Section 1903(m) of such Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396b(m)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396b))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (2)(A)(xiii)—

(A) by striking “and (III)” and inserting “(III)”;

(B) by inserting before the period at the end the following: “, and (IV) if
the contract includes provisions making the entity responsible for coverage of
covered outpatient drugs, the entity shall comply with the requirements of
section 1927(e)(6)”; and

(C) by moving the left margin 2 ems to the left; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(10) No payment shall be made under this title to a State with respect to
expenditures incurred by the State for payment for services provided by an
other specified entity (as defined in paragraph (9)(D)(iii)) unless such
services are provided in accordance with a contract between the State and such
entity which satisfies the requirements of paragraph (2)(A)(xiii).”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to
contracts between States and managed care entities, other specified entities,
or pharmacy benefit managers that have an effective date beginning on or after
the date that is 18 months after the date of enactment of this section.

(d) Implementation.—Implementation of the amendments made by this section
shall be exempt from the requirements of section 553 of title 5, United States
Code.

(e) Nonapplication of paperwork reduction act.—[Chapter
35](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title44-chapter35-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 44, United States Code,
shall not apply to any data collection undertaken by the Secretary of Health
and Human Services under section 1927(e) of the Social Security Act ([42
U.S.C.
1396r–8(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396r-8)),
as amended by this section.

SEC. 44125.  Prohibiting Federal Medicaid and CHIP funding for gender
transition procedures.

(a) Medicaid.—Section 1903(i) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396b(i)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396b))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (26), by striking “; or” and inserting a semicolon;

(2) in paragraph (27), by striking the period at the end and inserting “; or”;

(3) by inserting after paragraph (27) the following new paragraph:

“(28) with respect to any amount expended for specified gender transition
procedures (as defined in section 1905(kk)) furnished to an individual
enrolled in a State plan (or waiver of such plan).”; and

(4) in the flush left matter at the end, by striking “and (18),” and inserting
“(18), and (28)”.

(b) CHIP.—Section 2107(e)(1)(N) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1397gg(e)(1)(N)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1397gg))
is amended by striking “and (17)” and inserting “(17), and (28)”.

(c) Specified gender transition procedures defined.—Section 1905 of the Social
Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396d](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396d)) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(kk) Specified gender transition procedures.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section 1903(i)(28), except as provided in
paragraph (2), the term ‘specified gender transition procedure’ means, with
respect to an individual, any of the following when performed for the purpose
of intentionally changing the body of such individual (including by disrupting
the body’s development, inhibiting its natural functions, or modifying its
appearance) to no longer correspond to the individual’s sex:

“(A) Performing any surgery, including—

“(i) castration;

“(ii) sterilization;

“(iii) orchiectomy;

“(iv) scrotoplasty;

“(v) vasectomy;

“(vi) tubal ligation;

“(vii) hysterectomy;

“(viii) oophorectomy;

“(ix) ovariectomy;

“(x) metoidioplasty;

“(xi) clitoroplasty;

“(xii) reconstruction of the fixed part of the urethra with or without a
metoidioplasty or a phalloplasty;

“(xiii) penectomy;

“(xiv) phalloplasty;

“(xv) vaginoplasty;

“(xvi) vaginectomy;

“(xvii) vulvoplasty;

“(xviii) reduction thyrochondroplasty;

“(xix) chondrolaryngoplasty;

“(xx) mastectomy; and

“(xxi) any plastic, cosmetic, or aesthetic surgery that feminizes or
masculinizes the facial or other body features of an individual.

“(B) Any placement of chest implants to create feminine breasts or any
placement of erection or testicular prostheses.

“(C) Any placement of fat or artificial implants in the gluteal region.

“(D) Administering, prescribing, or dispensing to an individual medications,
including—

“(i) gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogues or other puberty-blocking
drugs to stop or delay normal puberty; and

“(ii) testosterone, estrogen, or other androgens to an individual at doses
that are supraphysiologic than would normally be produced endogenously in a
healthy individual of the same age and sex.

“(2) EXCEPTION.—Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the following when furnished
to an individual by a health care provider with the consent of such
individual’s parent or legal guardian:

“(A) Puberty suppression or blocking prescription drugs for the purpose of
normalizing puberty for an individual experiencing precocious puberty.

“(B) Medically necessary procedures or treatments to correct for—

“(i) a medically verifiable disorder of sex development, including—

“(I) 46,XX chromosomes with virilization;

“(II) 46,XY chromosomes with undervirilization; and

“(III) both ovarian and testicular tissue;

“(ii) sex chromosome structure, sex steroid hormone production, or sex hormone
action, if determined to be abnormal by a physician through genetic or
biochemical testing;

“(iii) infection, disease, injury, or disorder caused or exacerbated by a
previous procedure described in paragraph (1), or a physical disorder,
physical injury, or physical illness that would, as certified by a physician,
place the individual in imminent danger of death or impairment of a major
bodily function unless the procedure is performed, not including procedures
performed for the alleviation of mental distress; or

“(iv) procedures to restore or reconstruct the body of the individual in order
to correspond to the individual’s sex after one or more previous procedures
described in paragraph (1), which may include the removal of a pseudo phallus
or breast augmentation.

“(3) SEX.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the term ‘sex’ means either male or
female, as biologically determined and defined in paragraphs (4) and (5),
respectively.

“(4) FEMALE.—For purposes of paragraph (3), the term ‘female’ means an
individual who naturally has, had, will have, or would have, but for a
developmental or genetic anomaly or historical accident, the reproductive
system that at some point produces, transports, and utilizes eggs for
fertilization.

“(5) MALE.—For purposes of paragraph (3), the term ‘male’ means an individual
who naturally has, had, will have, or would have, but for a developmental or
genetic anomaly or historical accident, the reproductive system that at some
point produces, transports, and utilizes sperm for fertilization.”.

SEC. 44126. Federal payments to prohibited entities.

(a) In general.—No Federal funds that are considered direct spending and
provided to carry out a State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act
or a waiver of such a plan shall be used to make payments to a prohibited
entity for items and services furnished during the 10-year period beginning on
the date of the enactment of this Act, including any payments made directly to
the prohibited entity or under a contract or other arrangement between a State
and a covered organization.

(b) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) PROHIBITED ENTITY.—The term “prohibited entity” means an entity, including
its affiliates, subsidiaries, successors, and clinics—

(A) that, as of the date of enactment of this Act—

(i) is an organization described in [section
501(c)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=501)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a)
of such Code;

(ii) is an essential community provider described in section 156.235 of title
45, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of this
Act), that is primarily engaged in family planning services, reproductive
health, and related medical care; and

(iii) provides for abortions, other than an abortion—

(I) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest; or

(II) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical disorder, physical
injury, or physical illness, including a life-endangering physical condition
caused by or arising from the pregnancy itself, that would, as certified by a
physician, place the woman in danger of death unless an abortion is performed;
and

(B) for which the total amount of Federal and State expenditures under the
Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act in fiscal year
2024 made directly, or by a covered organization, to the entity or to any
affiliates, subsidiaries, successors, or clinics of the entity, or made to the
entity or to any affiliates, subsidiaries, successors, or clinics of the
entity as part of a nationwide health care provider network, exceeded
$1,000,000.

(2) DIRECT SPENDING.—The term “direct spending” has the meaning given that
term under section 250(c) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 ([2 U.S.C.
900(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=2&section=900)).

(3) COVERED ORGANIZATION.—The term “covered organization” means a managed care
entity (as defined in section 1932(a)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act ([42
U.S.C.
1396u–2(a)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396u-2)))
or a prepaid inpatient health plan or prepaid ambulatory health plan (as such
terms are defined in section 1903(m)(9)(D) of such Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396b(m)(9)(D)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396b))).

(4) STATE.—The term “State” has the meaning given such term in section 1101 of
the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1301](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1301)).

subpart C—Stopping abusive financing practices

SEC. 44131. Sunsetting eligibility for increased FMAP for new expansion
States.

Section 1905(ii)(3) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396d(ii)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396d))
is amended—

(1) by striking “which has not” and inserting the following: “which—

“(A) has not”;

(2) in subparagraph (A), as so inserted, by striking the period at the end and
inserting “; and”; and

(3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(B) begins to expend amounts for all such individuals prior to January 1,
2026.”.

SEC. 44132. Moratorium on new or increased provider taxes.

Section 1903(w)(1)(A)(iii) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396b(w)(1)(A)(iii)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396b))
is amended—

(1) by striking “or” at the end;

(2) by striking “if there” and inserting “if—

“(I) there”; and

(3) by adding at the end the following new subclauses:

“(II) the tax is first imposed by the State (or by a unit of local government
in the State) on or after the date of the enactment of this subclause (other
than such a tax for which the legislation or regulations providing for the
imposition of such tax were enacted or adopted prior to such date of
enactment); or

“(III) on or after the date of the enactment of this subclause, the State (or
unit of local government) increases the amount or rate of tax imposed with
respect to a class of health care items or services (or with respect to a type
of provider or activity within such a class), or increases the base of the tax
such that the tax is imposed with respect to a class of items or services (or
with respect to a type of provider or activity within such a class) to which
the tax did not previously apply, but only to the extent that such revenues
are attributable to such increase and only if such increase was not provided
for in legislation or regulations enacted or adopted prior to such date of
enactment; or”.

SEC. 44133. Revising payments for certain State directed payments.

(a) In general.—Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of Health and Human
Services (in this section referred to as the Secretary) shall revise section
438.6(c)(2)(iii) of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations such that, with
respect to a payment described in such section made for a service furnished
during a rating period beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the total payment rate for such service is limited to—

(1) in the case of a State that provides coverage to all individuals described
in section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a))
that is equivalent to minimum essential coverage (as described in [section
5000A(f)(1)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=5000A)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and determined in accordance with
standards prescribed by the Secretary in regulations) under the State plan (or
waiver of such plan) of such State under title XIX of such Act, 100 percent of
the specified total published Medicare payment rate (or, in the absence of a
specified total published Medicare payment rate, an equivalent Medicare
payment rate); or

(2) in the case of a State other than a State described in paragraph (1), 110
percent of the specified total published Medicare payment rate (or, in the
absence of a specified total published Medicare payment rate, an equivalent
Medicare payment rate).

(b) Grandfathering certain payments.—In the case of a payment described in
section 438.6(c)(2)(iii) of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations for which
written prior approval was made before the date of the enactment of this Act
for the rating period occurring as of such date of enactment, or a payment so
described for such rating period for which a preprint was submitted to the
Secretary prior to such date of enactment, the revisions described in
subsection (a) shall not apply to such payment for such rating period and for
any subsequent rating period if the amount of such payment does not exceed the
amount of such payment so approved.

(c) Treatment of expansion States.—The revisions described in subsection (a)
shall provide that, with respect to a State that begins providing the coverage
described in paragraph (1) of such subsection on or after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the limitation described in such paragraph shall apply
to such State with respect to a payment described in section 438.6(c)(2)(iii)
of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations for a service furnished during a
rating period beginning on or after the date on which such State begins
providing such coverage, including with respect to a payment so described for
which written prior approval was made before such date.

(d) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) EQUIVALENT MEDICARE PAYMENT RATE.—The term “equivalent Medicare payment
rate” means amounts calculated as payment for specific services comparable to
the service furnished that have been developed under part A or part B of title
XVIII of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 1396 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396)).

(2) RATING PERIOD.—The term “rating period” has the meaning given such term in
section 438.2 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations.

(3) TOTAL PUBLISHED MEDICARE PAYMENT RATE.—The term “total published Medicare
payment rate” means amounts calculated as payment for specific services
including the service furnished that have been developed under part A or part
B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C. 1395 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1395)).

(4) WRITTEN PRIOR APPROVAL.—The term “written prior approval” has the meaning
given such term in section 438.6(c)(2)(i) of title 42, Code of Federal
Regulations.

(e) Funding.—There are appropriated out of any monies in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated $7,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2033
for purposes of carrying out this section.

SEC. 44134.  Requirements regarding waiver of uniform tax requirement for
Medicaid provider tax.

(a) In general.—Section 1903(w) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396b(w)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396b))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (3)(E), by inserting after clause (ii)(II) the following new
clause:

“(iii) For purposes of clause (ii)(I), a tax is not considered to be generally
redistributive if any of the following conditions apply:

“(I) Within a permissible class, the tax rate imposed on any taxpayer or tax
rate group (as defined in paragraph (7)(J)) explicitly defined by its
relatively lower volume or percentage of Medicaid taxable units (as defined in
paragraph (7)(H)) is lower than the tax rate imposed on any other taxpayer or
tax rate group explicitly defined by its relatively higher volume or
percentage of Medicaid taxable units.

“(II) Within a permissible class, the tax rate imposed on any taxpayer or tax
rate group (as so defined) based upon its Medicaid taxable units (as so
defined) is higher than the tax rate imposed on any taxpayer or tax rate group
based upon its non-Medicaid taxable unit (as defined in paragraph (7)(I)).

“(III) The tax excludes or imposes a lower tax rate on a taxpayer or tax rate
group (as so defined) based on or defined by any description that results in
the same effect as described in subclause (I) or (II) for a taxpayer or tax
rate group. Characteristics that may indicate such type of exclusion include
the use of terminology to establish a tax rate group—

“(aa) based on payments or expenditures made under the program under this
title without mentioning the term ‘Medicaid’ (or any similar term) to
accomplish the same effect as described in subclause (I) or (II); or

“(bb) that closely approximates a taxpayer or tax rate group under the program
under this title, to the same effect as described in subclause (I) or (II).”;
and

(2) in paragraph (7), by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:

“(H) The term ‘Medicaid taxable unit’ means a unit that is being taxed within
a health care related tax that is applicable to the program under this title.
Such term includes a unit that is used as the basis for—

“(i) payment under the program under this title (such as Medicaid bed days);

“(ii) Medicaid revenue;

“(iii) costs associated with the program under this title (such as Medicaid
charges, claims, or expenditures); and

“(iv) other units associated with the program under this title, as determined
by the Secretary.

“(I) The term ‘non-Medicaid taxable unit’ means a unit that is being taxed
within a health care related tax that is not applicable to the program under
this title. Such term includes a unit that is used as the basis for—

“(i) payment by non-Medicaid payers (such as non-Medicaid bed days);

“(ii) non-Medicaid revenue;

“(iii) costs that are not associated with the program under this title (such
as non-Medicaid charges, non-Medicaid claims, or non-Medicaid expenditures);
and

“(iv) other units not associated with the program under this title, as
determined by the Secretary.

“(J) The term ‘tax rate group’ means a group of entities contained within a
permissible class of a health care related tax that are taxed at the same
rate.”.

(b) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall take effect upon
the date of enactment of this Act, subject to any applicable transition period
determined appropriate by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, not to
exceed 3 fiscal years.

SEC. 44135. Requiring budget neutrality for Medicaid demonstration projects
under section 1115.

Section 1115 of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1315](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1315)) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(g) Requirement of budget neutrality for Medicaid demonstration projects.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Beginning on the date of the enactment of this subsection,
the Secretary may not approve an application for (or renewal or amendment of)
an experimental, pilot, or demonstration project undertaken under subsection
(a) to promote the objectives of title XIX in a State (in this subsection
referred to as a ‘Medicaid demonstration project’) unless the Secretary
certifies that such project is not expected to result in an increase in the
amount of expenditures compared to the amount that such expenditures would
otherwise be in the absence of such project.

“(2) TREATMENT OF SAVINGS.—In the event that expenditures with respect to a
State under a Medicaid demonstration project are, during an approval period
for such project, less than the amount of such expenditures that would have
otherwise been made in the absence of such project, the Secretary shall
specify the methodology to be used with respect to any subsequent approval
period for such project for purposes of taking the difference between such
expenditures into account.”.

subpart D—Increasing personal accountability

SEC. 44141.  Requirement for States to establish Medicaid community engagement
requirements for certain individuals.

(a) In general.—Section 1902 of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a)),
as amended by sections 44103 and 44104, is further amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:

“(xx) Community engagement requirement for applicable individuals.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Beginning not later than December 31, 2026, or, at the option
of the State, such earlier date as the State may specify, subject to the
succeeding provisions of this subsection, a State shall provide, as a
condition of eligibility for medical assistance for an applicable individual,
that such individual is required to demonstrate community engagement under
paragraph (2)—

“(A) in the case of an applicable individual who has filed an application for
medical assistance under a State plan (or a waiver of such plan) under this
title, for 1 or more (as specified by the State) consecutive months
immediately preceding the month during which such individual applies for such
medical assistance; and

“(B) in the case of an applicable individual enrolled and receiving medical
assistance under a State plan (or under a waiver of such plan) under this
title, for 1 or more (as specified by the State) months, whether or not
consecutive—

“(i) during the period between such individual’s most recent determination (or
redetermination, as applicable) of eligibility and such individual’s next
regularly scheduled redetermination of eligibility (as verified by the State
as part of such regularly scheduled redetermination of eligibility); or

“(ii) in the case of a State that has elected under paragraph (4) to conduct
more frequent verifications of compliance with the requirement to demonstrate
community engagement, during the period between the most recent and next such
verification with respect to such individual.

“(2) COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE DESCRIBED.—Subject to paragraph (3), an
applicable individual demonstrates community engagement under this paragraph
for a month if such individual meets 1 or more of the following conditions
with respect to such month, as determined in accordance with criteria
established by the Secretary through regulation:

“(A) The individual works not less than 80 hours.

“(B) The individual completes not less than 80 hours of community service.

“(C) The individual participates in a work program for not less than 80 hours.

“(D) The individual is enrolled in an educational program at least half-time.

“(E) The individual engages in any combination of the activities described in
subparagraphs (A) through (D), for a total of not less than 80 hours.

“(F) The individual has a monthly income that is not less than the applicable
minimum wage requirement under section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938, multiplied by 80 hours.

“(3) EXCEPTIONS.—

“(A) MANDATORY EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS.—The State shall deem an
applicable individual to have demonstrated community engagement under
paragraph (2) for a month if—

“(i) for part or all of such month, the individual—

“(I) was a specified excluded individual (as defined in paragraph (9)(A)(ii));
or

“(II) was—

“(aa) under the age of 19;

“(bb) pregnant or entitled to postpartum medical assistance under paragraph
(5) or (16) of subsection (e);

“(cc) entitled to, or enrolled for, benefits under part A of title XVIII, or
enrolled for benefits under part B of title XVIII; or

“(dd) described in any of subclauses (I) through (VII) of subsection
(a)(10)(A)(i); or

“(ii) at any point during the 3-month period ending on the first day of such
month, the individual was an inmate of a public institution.

“(B) OPTIONAL EXCEPTION FOR SHORT-TERM HARDSHIP EVENTS.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The State plan (or waiver of such plan) may provide, in the
case of an applicable individual who experiences a short-term hardship event
during a month, that the State shall, upon the request of such individual
under procedures established by the State (in accordance with standards
specified by the Secretary), deem such individual to have demonstrated
community engagement under paragraph (2) for such month.

“(ii) SHORT-TERM HARDSHIP EVENT DEFINED.—For purposes of this subparagraph, an
applicable individual experiences a short-term hardship event during a month
if, for part or all of such month—

“(I) such individual receives inpatient hospital services, nursing facility
services, services in an intermediate care facility for individuals with
intellectual disabilities, inpatient psychiatric hospital services, or such
other services of similar acuity (including outpatient care relating to other
services specified in this subclause) as the Secretary determines appropriate;
or

“(II) such individual resides in a county (or equivalent unit of local
government)—

“(aa) in which there exists an emergency or disaster declared by the President
pursuant to the National Emergencies Act or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act; or

“(bb) that, subject to a request from the State to the Secretary, made in such
form, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary may
require, has an unemployment rate that is at or above the lesser of—

“(AA) 8 percent; or

“(BB) 1.5 times the national unemployment rate.

“(4) OPTION TO CONDUCT MORE FREQUENT COMPLIANCE VERIFICATIONS.—With respect to
an applicable individual enrolled and receiving medical assistance under a
State plan (or a waiver of such plan) under this title, the State shall verify
(in accordance with procedures specified by the Secretary) that each such
individual has met the requirement to demonstrate community engagement under
paragraph (1) during each such individual’s regularly scheduled
redetermination of eligibility, except that a State may provide for such
verifications more frequently.

“(5) EX PARTE VERIFICATIONS.—For purposes of verifying that an applicable
individual has met the requirement to demonstrate community engagement under
paragraph (1), the State shall, in accordance with standards established by
the Secretary, establish processes and use reliable information available to
the State (such as payroll data) without requiring, where possible, the
applicable individual to submit additional information.

“(6) PROCEDURE IN THE CASE OF NONCOMPLIANCE.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—If a State is unable to verify that an applicable individual
has met the requirement to demonstrate community engagement under paragraph
(1) (including, if applicable, by verifying that such individual was deemed to
have demonstrated community engagement under paragraph (3)) the State shall
(in accordance with standards specified by the Secretary)—

“(i) provide such individual with the notice of noncompliance described in
subparagraph (B);

“(ii)  (I) provide such individual with a period of 30 calendar days,
beginning on the date on which such notice of noncompliance is received by the
individual, to—

“(aa) make a satisfactory showing to the State of compliance with such
requirement (including, if applicable, by showing that such individual was
deemed to have demonstrated community engagement under paragraph (3)); or

“(bb) make a satisfactory showing to the State that such requirement does not
apply to such individual on the basis that such individual does not meet the
definition of applicable individual under paragraph (9)(A); and

“(II) if such individual is enrolled under the State plan (or a waiver of such
plan) under this title, continue to provide such individual with medical
assistance during such 30-calendar-day period; and

“(iii) if no such satisfactory showing is made and the individual is not a
specified excluded individual described in paragraph (9)(A)(ii), deny such
individual’s application for medical assistance under the State plan (or
waiver of such plan) or, as applicable, disenroll such individual from the
plan (or waiver of such plan) not later than the end of the month following
the month in which such 30-calendar-day period ends, provided that—

“(I) the State first determines whether, with respect to the individual, there
is any other basis for eligibility for medical assistance under the State plan
(or waiver of such plan) or for another insurance affordability program; and

“(II) the individual is provided written notice and granted an opportunity for
a fair hearing in accordance with subsection (a)(3).

“(B) NOTICE.—The notice of noncompliance provided to an applicable individual
under subparagraph (A)(i) shall include information (in accordance with
standards specified by the Secretary) on—

“(i) how such individual may make a satisfactory showing of compliance with
such requirement (as described in subparagraph (A)(ii)) or make a satisfactory
showing that such requirement does not apply to such individual on the basis
that such individual does not meet the definition of applicable individual
under paragraph (9)(A); and

“(ii) how such individual may reapply for medical assistance under the State
plan (or a waiver of such plan) under this title in the case that such
individuals’ application is denied or, as applicable, in the case that such
individual is disenrolled from the plan (or waiver).

“(7) TREATMENT OF NONCOMPLIANT INDIVIDUALS IN RELATION TO CERTAIN OTHER
PROVISIONS.—

“(A) CERTAIN FMAP INCREASES.—A State shall not be treated as not providing
medical assistance to all individuals described in section
1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII), or as not expending amounts for all such individuals
under the State plan (or waiver of such plan), solely because such an
individual is determined ineligible for medical assistance under the State
plan (or waiver) on the basis of a failure to meet the requirement to
demonstrate community engagement under paragraph (1).

“(B) OTHER PROVISIONS.—For purposes of [section
36B(c)(2)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, an individual shall be deemed to be
eligible for minimum essential coverage described in section
5000A(f)(1)(A)(ii) of such Code for a month if such individual would have been
eligible for medical assistance under a State plan (or a waiver of such plan)
under this title but for a failure to meet the requirement to demonstrate
community engagement under paragraph (1).

“(8) OUTREACH.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with standards specified by the Secretary,
beginning not later than the date that precedes December 31, 2026 (or, if the
State elects under paragraph (1) to specify an earlier date, such earlier
date) by the number of months specified by the State under paragraph (1)(A)
plus 3 months, and periodically thereafter, the State shall notify applicable
individuals enrolled under a State plan (or waiver) under this title of the
requirement to demonstrate community engagement under this subsection. Such
notice shall include information on—

“(i) how to comply with such requirement, including an explanation of the
exceptions to such requirement under paragraph (3) and the definition of the
term ‘applicable individual’ under paragraph (9)(A);

“(ii) the consequences of noncompliance with such requirement; and

“(iii) how to report to the State any change in the individual’s status that
could result in—

“(I) the applicability of an exception under paragraph (3) (or the end of the
applicability of such an exception); or

“(II) the individual qualifying as a specified excluded individual under
paragraph (9)(A)(ii).

“(B) FORM OF OUTREACH NOTICE.—A notice required under subparagraph (A) shall
be delivered—

“(i) by regular mail (or, if elected by the individual, in an electronic
format); and

“(ii) in 1 or more additional forms, which may include telephone, text
message, an internet website, other commonly available electronic means, and
such other forms as the Secretary determines appropriate.

“(9) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:

“(A) APPLICABLE INDIVIDUAL.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘applicable individual’ means an individual (other
than a specified excluded individual (as defined in clause (ii)))—

“(I) who is eligible to enroll (or is enrolled) under the State plan under
subsection (a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII); or

“(II) who—

“(aa) is otherwise eligible to enroll (or is enrolled) under a waiver of such
plan that provides coverage that is equivalent to minimum essential coverage
(as described in [section
5000A(f)(1)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=5000A)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and as determined in accordance with
standards prescribed by the Secretary in regulations); and

“(bb) has attained the age of 19 and is under 65 years of age, is not
pregnant, is not entitled to, or enrolled for, benefits under part A of title
XVIII, or enrolled for benefits under part B of title XVIII, and is not
otherwise eligible to enroll under such plan.

“(ii) SPECIFIED EXCLUDED INDIVIDUAL.—For purposes of clause (i), the term
‘specified excluded individual’ means an individual, as determined by the
State (in accordance with standards specified by the Secretary)—

“(I) who is described in subsection (a)(10)(A)(i)(IX);

“(II) who—

“(aa) is an Indian or an Urban Indian (as such terms are defined in paragraphs
(13) and (28) of section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act);

“(bb) is a California Indian described in section 809(a) of such Act; or

“(cc) has otherwise been determined eligible as an Indian for the Indian
Health Service under regulations promulgated by the Secretary;

“(III) who is the parent, guardian, or caretaker relative of a disabled
individual or a dependent child;

“(IV) who is a veteran with a disability rated as total under section 1155 of
title 38, United States Code;

“(V) who is medically frail or otherwise has special medical needs (as defined
by the Secretary), including an individual—

“(aa) who is blind or disabled (as defined in section 1614);

“(bb) with a substance use disorder;

“(cc) with a disabling mental disorder;

“(dd) with a physical, intellectual or developmental disability that
significantly impairs their ability to perform 1 or more activities of daily
living; or

“(ee) with a serious or complex medical condition;

“(VI) who—

“(aa) is in compliance with any requirements imposed by the State pursuant to
section 407; or

“(bb) is a member of a household that receives supplemental nutrition
assistance program benefits under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and is
not exempt from a work requirement under such Act;

“(VII) who is participating in a drug addiction or alcoholic treatment and
rehabilitation program (as defined in section 3(h) of the Food and Nutrition
Act of 2008); or

“(VIII) who is an inmate of a public institution.

“(B) EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM.—The term ‘educational program’ includes—

“(i) an institution of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the
Higher Education Act of 1965); and

“(ii) a program of career and technical education (as defined in section 3 of
the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006).

“(C) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means 1 of the 50 States or the District of
Columbia.

“(D) WORK PROGRAM.—The term ‘work program’ has the meaning given such term in
section 6(o)(1) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.

“(10) PROHIBITING WAIVER OF COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.—Notwithstanding
section 1115(a), the provisions of this subsection may not be waived.”.

(b) Conforming amendment.—Section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of the Social
Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a))
is amended by striking “subject to subsection (k)” and inserting “subject to
subsections (k) and (xx)”.

(c) Guidance.—Not later than December 31, 2025, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall issue guidance relating to the initial implementation of
the amendments made by this section.

(d) Development of government efficiency grants to States.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, out of
amounts appropriated under paragraph (3), award to each State a grant equal to
the amount specified in paragraph (2) for such State for purposes of
establishing systems necessary to carry out the provisions of, and amendments
made by, this section.

(2) AMOUNT SPECIFIED.—For purposes of paragraph (2), the amount specified in
this paragraph is an amount that bears the same ratio to the amount
appropriated under paragraph (3) as the number of applicable individuals (as
defined in section 1902(xx) of the Social Security Act, as added by subsection
(a)) residing in such State bears to the total number of such individuals
residing in all States.

(3) FUNDING.—There are appropriated, out of any monies in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2026 for purposes of
awarding grants under paragraph (1).

(4) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the term “State” means 1 of the 50 States
and the District of Columbia.

(e) Implementation funding.—For the purposes of carrying out the provisions
of, and the amendments made by, this section, there are appropriated, out of
any monies in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2026, to remain
available until expended.

SEC. 44142. Modifying cost sharing requirements for certain expansion
individuals under the Medicaid program.

(a) In general.—Section 1916 of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396o](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396o)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting
“(other than, beginning October 1, 2028, specified individuals (as defined in
subsection (k)(3)))” after “individuals”; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(k) Special rules for certain expansion individuals.—

“(1) PREMIUMS.—Beginning October 1, 2028, the State plan shall provide that in
the case of a specified individual (as defined in paragraph (3)) who is
eligible under the plan, no enrollment fee, premium, or similar charge will be
imposed under the plan.

“(2) REQUIRED IMPOSITION OF COST SHARING.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph (B) and subsection (j), in the case
of a specified individual, the State plan shall, beginning October 1, 2028,
provide for the imposition of such deductions, cost sharing, or similar
charges determined appropriate by the State (in an amount greater than $0)
with respect to medical assistance furnished to such an individual.

“(B) LIMITATIONS.—

“(i) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN SERVICES.—In no case may a deduction, cost sharing,
or similar charge be imposed under the State plan with respect to services
described in any of subparagraphs (B) through (J) of subsection (a)(2), or any
primary care services, mental health care services, or substance use disorder
services, furnished to a specified individual.

“(ii) ITEM AND SERVICE LIMITATION.—

“(I) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subclause (II), in no case may a
deduction, cost sharing, or similar charge imposed under the State plan with
respect to an item or service furnished to a specified individual exceed $35.

“(II) SPECIAL RULES FOR PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.—In no case may a deduction, cost
sharing, or similar charge imposed under the State plan with respect to a
prescription drug furnished to a specified individual exceed the limit that
would be applicable under paragraph (2)(A)(i) or (2)(B) of section 1916A(c)
with respect to such drug and individual if such drug so furnished were
subject to cost sharing under such section.

“(iii) MAXIMUM LIMIT ON COST SHARING.—The total aggregate amount of
deductions, cost sharing, or similar charges imposed under the State plan for
all individuals in the family may not exceed 5 percent of the family income of
the family involved, as applied on a quarterly or monthly basis (as specified
by the State).

“(C) CASES OF NONPAYMENT.—Notwithstanding subsection (e), a State may permit a
provider participating under the State plan to require, as a condition for the
provision of care, items, or services to a specified individual entitled to
medical assistance under this title for such care, items, or services, the
payment of any deductions, cost sharing, or similar charges authorized to be
imposed with respect to such care, items, or services. Nothing in this
subparagraph shall be construed as preventing a provider from reducing or
waiving the application of such deductions, cost sharing, or similar charges
on a case-by-case basis.

“(3) SPECIFIED INDIVIDUAL DEFINED.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘specified individual’ means an individual who has a family income (as
determined in accordance with section 1902(e)(14)) that exceeds the poverty
line (as defined in section 2110(c)(5)) applicable to a family of the size
involved and—

“(A) is enrolled under section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII); or

“(B) is described in such subsection and otherwise enrolled under a waiver of
such plan that provides coverage that is equivalent to minimum essential
coverage (as described in [section
5000A(f)(1)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=5000A)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and determined in accordance with
standards prescribed by the Secretary in regulations) to all individuals
described in section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII).”.

(b) Conforming amendments.—

(1) REQUIRED APPLICATION.—Section 1902(a)(14) of the Social Security Act ([42
U.S.C.
1396a(a)(14)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a))
is amended by inserting “and provide for imposition of such deductions, cost
sharing, or similar charges for medical assistance furnished to specified
individuals (as defined in paragraph (3) of section 1916(k)) in accordance
with paragraph (2) of such section” after “section 1916”.

(2) NONAPPLICABILITY OF ALTERNATIVE COST SHARING.—Section 1916A(a)(1) of the
Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396o–1(a)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396o-1))
is amended, in the second sentence, by striking “or (j)” and inserting “(j),
or (k)”.

PART 2—Affordable Care Act

SEC. 44201.  Addressing waste, fraud, and abuse in the ACA Exchanges.

(a) Changes to enrollment periods for enrolling in Exchanges.—Section 1311 of
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18031](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18031)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (c)(6)—

(A) by striking subparagraph (A);

(B) by striking “The Secretary” and inserting the following:

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary”;

(C) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (D) as clauses (i) through
(iii), respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly;

(D) in clause (i), as so redesignated, by striking “periods, as determined by
the Secretary for calendar years after the initial enrollment period;” and
inserting the following: “periods for plans offered in the individual market—

“(I) for enrollment for plan years beginning before January 1, 2026, as
determined by the Secretary; and

“(II) for enrollment for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026,
beginning on November 1 and ending on December 15 of the preceding calendar
year;”;

(E) in clause (ii), as so redesignated, by inserting “subject to subparagraph
(B),” before “special enrollment periods specified”; and

(F) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(B) PROHIBITED SPECIAL ENROLLMENT PERIOD.—With respect to plan years
beginning on or after January 1, 2026, the Secretary may not require an
Exchange to provide for a special enrollment period for an individual on the
basis of the relationship of the income of such individual to the poverty
line, other than a special enrollment period based on a change in
circumstances or the occurrence of a specific event.”; and

(2) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:

“(8) PROHIBITED ENROLLMENT PERIODS.—An Exchange may not provide for, with
respect to enrollment for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026—

“(A) an annual open enrollment period other than the period described in
subparagraph (A)(i) of subsection (c)(6); or

“(B) a special enrollment period described in subparagraph (B) of such
subsection.

“(9) VERIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR SPECIAL ENROLLMENT PERIODS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—With respect to enrollment for plan years beginning on or
after January 1, 2026, an Exchange shall verify that each individual seeking
to enroll in a qualified health plan offered by the Exchange during a special
enrollment period selected under subparagraph (B) is eligible to enroll during
such special enrollment period prior to enrolling such individual in such
plan.

“(B) SELECTED SPECIAL ENROLLMENT PERIODS.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), an
Exchange shall select one or more special enrollment periods for a plan year
with respect to which such Exchange shall conduct the verification required
under subparagraph (A) such that the Exchange conducts such verification for
not less than 75 percent of all individuals enrolling in a qualified health
plan offered by the Exchange during any special enrollment period with respect
to such plan year.”.

(b) Verifying income for individuals enrolling in a qualified health plan
through an Exchange.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1411(e)(4) of the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18081(e)(4)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18081))
is amended—

(A) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (E); and

(B) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraphs:

“(C) REQUIRING VERIFICATION OF INCOME AND FAMILY SIZE WHEN TAX DATA IS
UNAVAILABLE.—For plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026, for
purposes of subparagraph (A), in the case that the Exchange requests data from
the Secretary of the Treasury regarding an individual’s household income and
the Secretary of the Treasury does not return such data, such information may
not be verified solely on the basis of the attestation of such individual with
respect to such household income, and the Exchange shall take the actions
described in subparagraph (A).

“(D) REQUIRING VERIFICATION OF INCOME IN THE CASE OF CERTAIN INCOME
DISCREPANCIES.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (iii), for plan years beginning on or after
January 1, 2026, for purposes of subparagraph (A), in the case that a
specified income discrepancy described in clause (ii) of this subparagraph
exists with respect to the information provided by an applicant under
subsection (b)(3), the household income of such individual shall be treated as
inconsistent with information in the records maintained by persons under
subsection (c), or as not verified under subsection (d), and the Exchange
shall take the actions described in such subparagraph (A).

“(ii) SPECIFIED INCOME DISCREPANCY.—For purposes of clause (i), a specified
income discrepancy exists with respect to the information provided by an
applicant under subsection (b)(3) if—

“(I) the applicant attests to a projected annual household income that would
qualify such applicant to be an applicable taxpayer under [section
36B(c)(1)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with respect to the taxable year
involved;

“(II) the Exchange receives data from the Secretary of the Treasury or other
reliable, third party data, that indicates that the household income of such
applicant is less than the household income that would qualify such applicant
to be an applicable taxpayer under such section 36B(c)(1)(A) with respect to
the taxable year involved;

“(III) such attested projected annual household income exceeds the income
reflected in the data described in subclause (II) by a reasonable threshold
established by the Exchange and approved by the Secretary (which shall be not
less than 10 percent, and may also be a dollar amount); and

“(IV) the Exchange has not assessed or determined based on the data described
in subclause (II) that the household income of the applicant meets the
applicable income-based eligibility standard for the Medicaid program under
title XIX of the Social Security Act or the State children’s health insurance
program under title XXI of such Act.

“(iii) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS INELIGIBLE FOR MEDICAID.—This
subparagraph shall not apply in the case of an applicant who is an alien
lawfully present in the United States, who is not eligible for the Medicaid
program under title XIX of the Social Security Act by reason of such alien
status.”.

(2) REQUIRING INDIVIDUALS ON WHOSE BEHALF ADVANCE PAYMENTS OF THE PREMIUM TAX
CREDITS ARE MADE TO FILE AND RECONCILE ON AN ANNUAL BASIS.—Section 1412(b) of
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18082(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18082))
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(3) ANNUAL REQUIREMENT TO FILE AND RECONCILE.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—For plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026, in the
case of an individual with respect to whom any advance payment of the premium
tax credit allowable under [section
36B](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=36B) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 was made under this section to the issuer of a
qualified health plan for the relevant prior tax year, an advance
determination of eligibility for such premium tax credit may not be made under
this subsection with respect to such individual and such plan year if the
Exchange determines, based on information provided by the Secretary of the
Treasury, that such individual—

“(i) has not filed an income tax return, as required under sections 6011 and
6012 of such Code (and implementing regulations), for the relevant prior tax
year; or

“(ii) as necessary, has not reconciled (in accordance with subsection (f) of
such section 36B) the advance payment of the premium tax credit made with
respect to such individual for such relevant prior tax year.

“(B) RELEVANT PRIOR TAX YEAR.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term
‘relevant prior tax year’ means, with respect to the advance determination of
eligibility made under this subsection with respect to an individual, the
taxable year for which tax return data would be used for purposes of verifying
the household income and family size of such individual (as described in
section 1411(b)(3)(A)).

“(C) PRELIMINARY ATTESTATION.—If an individual subject to subparagraph (A)
attests that such individual has fulfilled the requirements to file an income
tax return for the relevant prior tax year and, as necessary, to reconcile the
advance payment of the premium tax credit made with respect to such individual
for such relevant prior tax year (as described in clauses (i) and (ii) of such
subparagraph), the Secretary may make an initial advance determination of
eligibility with respect to such individual and may delay for a reasonable
period (as determined by the Secretary) any determination based on information
provided by the Secretary of the Treasury that such individual has not
fulfilled such requirements.

“(D) NOTICE.—If the Secretary determines that an individual did not meet the
requirements described in subparagraph (A) with respect to the relevant prior
tax year and notifies the Exchange of such determination, the Exchange shall
comply with the notification requirement described in section 155.305(f)(4)(i)
of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect with respect to plan
year 2025).”.

(3) REMOVING AUTOMATIC EXTENSION OF PERIOD TO RESOLVE INCOME
INCONSISTENCIES.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall revise
section 155.315(f) of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, to remove
paragraph (7) of such section such that, with respect to enrollment for plan
years beginning on or after January 1, 2026, in the case that an Exchange
established under subtitle D of title I of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act ([42 U.S.C. 18021 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18021))
provides an individual applying for enrollment in a qualified health plan with
a 90-day period to resolve an inconsistency in the application of such
individual pursuant to section 1411(e)(4)(A)(ii)(II) of such Act, the Exchange
may not provide for an automatic extension to such 90-day period on the basis
that such individual is required to present satisfactory documentary evidence
to verify household income.

(c) Revising rules on allowable variation in actuarial value of health
plans.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall—

(1) revise section 156.140(c) of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, to
provide that, for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026, the
allowable variation in the actuarial value of a health plan applicable under
such section shall be the allowable variation for such plan applicable under
such section for plan year 2022;

(2) revise section 156.200(b)(3) of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, to
provide that, for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026, the
requirement for a qualified health plan issuer described in such section is
that the issuer ensures that each qualified health plan complies with benefit
design standards, as defined in section 156.20 of such title; and

(3) revise section 156.400 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, to
provide that, for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026, the term
“de minimis variation for a silver plan variation” means a minus 1 percentage
point and plus 1 percentage point allowable actuarial value variation.

(d) Updating premium adjustment percentage methodology.—Section 1302(c)(4) of
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18022(c)(4)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18022))
is amended—

(1) by striking “For purposes” and inserting:

“(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes”; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(B) UPDATE TO METHODOLOGY.—For calendar years beginning with 2026, the
premium adjustment percentage under this paragraph for such calendar year
shall be determined consistent with the methodology published in the Federal
Register on April 25, 2019 (84 Fed. Reg. 17537 through 17541).”.

(e) Eliminating the fixed-dollar and gross-percentage thresholds applicable to
Exchange enrollments.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall revise
section 155.400(g) of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations to eliminate, for
plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026, the gross premium
percentage-based premium payment threshold policy described in paragraph (2)
of such section and the fixed-dollar premium payment threshold policy
described in paragraph (3) of such section.

(f) Prohibiting automatic reenrollment from bronze to silver level qualified
health plans offered by Exchanges.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall revise section 155.335(j) of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations to
remove paragraph (4) of such section such that, with respect to reenrollments
for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026, an Exchange established
under subtitle D of title I of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
([42 U.S.C. 18021 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18021)) may
not reenroll an individual who was enrolled in a bronze level qualified health
plan in a silver level qualified health plan (as such terms are defined in
section 1301(a) and described in 1302(d) of such Act) unless otherwise
permitted under section 155.335(j) of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations,
as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this section.

(g) Reducing advance payments of premium tax credits for certain individuals
reenrolled in Exchanges.—Section 1412 of the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18082](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18082)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (a)(3), by inserting “, subject to subsection (c)(2)(C),”
after “qualified health plans”; and

(2) in subsection (c)(2)—

(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking “The” and inserting “Subject to
subparagraph (C), the”; and

(B) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) REDUCTION IN ADVANCE PAYMENT FOR SPECIFIED REENROLLED INDIVIDUALS.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The amount of an advance payment made under subparagraph (A)
to reduce the premium payable for a qualified health plan that provides
coverage to a specified reenrolled individual for an applicable month shall be
an amount equal to the amount that would otherwise be made under such
subparagraph reduced by $5 (or such higher amount as the Secretary determines
appropriate).

“(ii) DEFINITIONS.—In this subparagraph:

“(I) APPLICABLE MONTH.—The term ‘applicable month’ means, with respect to a
specified reenrolled individual, any month during a plan year beginning on or
after January 1, 2027 (or, in the case of an individual reenrolled in a
qualified health plan by an Exchange established pursuant to section 1321(c),
January 1, 2026) if, prior to the first day of such month, such individual has
failed to confirm or update such information as is necessary to redetermine
the eligibility of such individual for such plan year pursuant to section
1411(f).

“(II) SPECIFIED REENROLLED INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘specified reenrolled
individual’ means an individual who is reenrolled in a qualified health plan
and with respect to whom the advance payment made under subparagraph (A)
would, without application of any reduction under this subparagraph, reduce
the premium payable for a qualified health plan that provides coverage to such
an individual to $0.”.

(h) Prohibiting coverage of gender transition procedures as an essential
health benefit under plans offered by Exchanges.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1302(b)(2) of the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18022(b)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18022))
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(C) GENDER TRANSITION PROCEDURES.—For plan years beginning on or after
January 1, 2027, the essential health benefits defined pursuant to paragraph
(1) may not include items and services furnished for a gender transition
procedure.”.

(2) GENDER TRANSITION PROCEDURE DEFINED.—Section 1304 of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18024](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18024)) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(f) Gender transition procedure.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—In this title, except as provided in paragraph (2), the term
‘gender transition procedure’ means, with respect to an individual, any of the
following when performed for the purpose of intentionally changing the body of
such individual (including by disrupting the body’s development, inhibiting
its natural functions, or modifying its appearance) to no longer correspond to
the individual’s sex:

“(A) Performing any surgery, including—

“(i) castration;

“(ii) sterilization;

“(iii) orchiectomy;

“(iv) scrotoplasty;

“(v) vasectomy;

“(vi) tubal ligation;

“(vii) hysterectomy;

“(viii) oophorectomy;

“(ix) ovariectomy;

“(x) metoidioplasty;

“(xi) clitoroplasty;

“(xii) reconstruction of the fixed part of the urethra with or without a
metoidioplasty or a phalloplasty;

“(xiii) penectomy;

“(xiv) phalloplasty;

“(xv) vaginoplasty;

“(xvi) vaginectomy;

“(xvii) vulvoplasty;

“(xviii) reduction thyrochondroplasty;

“(xix) chondrolaryngoplasty;

“(xx) mastectomy; and

“(xxi) any plastic, cosmetic, or aesthetic surgery that feminizes or
masculinizes the facial or other body features of an individual.

“(B) Any placement of chest implants to create feminine breasts or any
placement of erection or testicular prosetheses.

“(C) Any placement of fat or artificial implants in the gluteal region.

“(D) Administering, prescribing, or dispensing to an individual medications,
including—

“(i) gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogues or other puberty-blocking
drugs to stop or delay normal puberty; and

“(ii) testosterone, estrogen, or other androgens to an individual at doses
that are supraphysiologic than would normally be produced endogenously in a
healthy individual of the same age and sex.

“(2) EXCEPTION.—Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the following:

“(A) Puberty suppression or blocking prescription drugs for the purpose of
normalizing puberty for an individual experiencing precocious puberty.

“(B) Medically necessary procedures or treatments to correct for—

“(i) a medically verifiable disorder of sex development, including—

“(I) 46,XX chromosomes with virilization;

“(II) 46,XY chromosomes with undervirilization; and

“(III) both ovarian and testicular tissue;

“(ii) sex chromosome structure, sex steroid hormone production, or sex hormone
action, if determined to be abnormal by a physician through genetic or
biochemical testing;

“(iii) infection, disease, injury, or disorder caused or exacerbated by a
previous procedure described in paragraph (1), or a physical disorder,
physical injury, or physical illness that would, as certified by a physician,
place the individual in imminent danger of death or impairment of a major
bodily function unless the procedure is performed, not including procedures
performed for the alleviation of mental distress; or

“(iv) procedures to restore or reconstruct the body of the individual in order
to correspond to the individual’s sex after one or more previous procedures
described in paragraph (1), which may include the removal of a pseudo phallus
or breast augmentation.

“(3) SEX.—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘sex’ means either male or
female, as biologically determined and defined by subparagraph (A) and
subparagraph (B).

“(A) FEMALE.—The term ‘female’ means an individual who naturally has, had,
will have, or would have, but for a developmental or genetic anomaly or
historical accident, the reproductive system that at some point produces,
transports, and utilizes eggs for fertilization.

“(B) MALE.—The term ‘male’ means an individual who naturally has, had, will
have, or would have, but for a developmental or genetic anomaly or historical
accident, the reproductive system that at some point produces, transports, and
utilizes sperm for fertilization.”.

(i) Clarifying lawful presence for purposes of the Exchanges.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1312(f) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act ([42 U.S.C.
18032(f)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18032))
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(4) CLARIFICATION OF LAWFUL PRESENCE.—In this title, the term ‘alien lawfully
present in the United States’ does not include an alien granted deferred
action under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals process pursuant to
the memorandum of the Department of Homeland Security entitled ‘Exercising
Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to Individuals Who Came to the United
States as Children’ issued on June 15, 2012.”.

(2) COST-SHARING REDUCTIONS.—Section 1402(e)(2) of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18071(e)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18071))
is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: “For purposes of
this section, an individual shall not be treated as lawfully present if the
individual is an alien granted deferred action under the Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals process pursuant to the memorandum of the Department of
Homeland Security entitled  ‘Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect
to Individuals Who Came to the United States as Children’ issued on June 15,
2012.”.

(3) PAYMENT PROHIBITION.—Section 1412(d) of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18082(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18082))
is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: “For purposes of
the previous sentence, an individual shall not be treated as lawfully present
if the individual is an alien granted deferred action under the Deferred
Action for Childhood Arrivals process pursuant to the memorandum of the
Department of Homeland Security entitled  ‘Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion
with Respect to Individuals Who Came to the United States as Children’ issued
on June 15, 2012.”.

(4) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this section shall apply with
respect to plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026.

(j) Ensuring appropriate application of guaranteed issue requirements in case
of nonpayment of past premiums.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 2702 of the Public Health Service Act ([42 U.S.C.
300gg–1](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=300gg-1))
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(e) Nonpayment of past premiums.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—A health insurance issuer offering individual health
insurance coverage may, to the extent allowed under State law, deny such
coverage in the case of an individual who owes any amount for premiums for
individual health insurance coverage offered by such issuer (or by a health
insurance issuer in the same controlled group (as defined in paragraph (3)) as
such issuer) in which such individual was previously enrolled.

“(2) ATTRIBUTION OF INITIAL PREMIUM PAYMENT TO OWED AMOUNT.—A health insurance
issuer offering individual health insurance coverage may, in the case of an
individual described in paragraph (1) and to the extent allowed under State
law, attribute the initial premium payment for such coverage applicable to
such individual to the amount owed by such individual for premiums for
individual health insurance coverage offered by such issuer (or by a health
insurance issuer in the same controlled group as such issuer) in which such
individual was previously enrolled.

“(3) CONTROLLED GROUP DEFINED.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘controlled group’ means a group of of two or more persons that is treated as
a single employer under section 52(a), 52(b), 414(m), or 414(o) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986.”.

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall apply with
respect to plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2026.

SEC. 44202. Funding cost sharing reduction payments.

Section 1402 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ([42 U.S.C.
18071](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=18071)) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(h) Funding.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—There are appropriated out of any monies in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated such sums as may be necessary for purposes of making
payments under this section for plan years beginning on or after January 1,
2026.

“(2) LIMITATION.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) may not be used
for purposes of making payments under this section for a qualified health plan
that provides health benefit coverage that includes coverage of abortion.

“(B) EXCEPTION.—Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to payments for a qualified
health plan that provides coverage of abortion only if necessary to save the
life of the mother or if the pregnancy is a result of an act of rape or
incest.”.

PART 3—Improving Americans’ access to care

SEC. 44301.  Expanding and clarifying the exclusion for orphan drugs under the
Drug Price Negotiation Program.

(a) In general.—Section 1192(e) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1320f–1(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1320f-1))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
“and (3)” and inserting “through (4)”;

(2) in paragraph (3)(A)—

(A) by striking “only one rare disease or condition” and inserting “one or
more rare diseases or conditions”; and

(B) by striking “such disease or condition” and inserting “one or more rare
diseases or conditions (as such term is defined in section 526(a)(2) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act)”; and

(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(4) TREATMENT OF FORMER ORPHAN DRUGS.—In the case of a drug or biological
product that, as of the date of the approval or licensure of such drug or
biological product, is a drug or biological product described in paragraph
(3)(A), paragraph (1)(A)(ii) or (1)(B)(ii) (as applicable) shall apply as if
the reference to ‘the date of such approval’ or ‘the date of such licensure’,
respectively, were instead a reference to ‘the first day after the date of
such approval for which such drug is not a drug described in paragraph (3)(A)’
or ‘the first day after the date of such licensure for which such biological
product is not a biological product described in paragraph (3)(A)’,
respectively.”.

(b) Application.—The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply with
respect to initial price applicability years (as defined in section 1191(b) of
the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1320f(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1320f)))
beginning on or after January 1, 2028.

SEC. 44302.  Streamlined enrollment process for eligible out-of-state
providers under Medicaid and CHIP.

(a) In general.—Section 1902(kk) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a(kk)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a))
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(10) STREAMLINED ENROLLMENT PROCESS FOR ELIGIBLE OUT-OF-STATE PROVIDERS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The State—

“(i) adopts and implements a process to allow an eligible out-of-State
provider to enroll under the State plan (or a waiver of such plan) to furnish
items and services to, or order, prescribe, refer, or certify eligibility for
items and services for, qualifying individuals without the imposition of
screening or enrollment requirements by such State that exceed the minimum
necessary for such State to provide payment to an eligible out-of-State
provider under such State plan (or a waiver of such plan), such as the
provider's name and National Provider Identifier (and such other information
specified by the Secretary); and

“(ii) provides that an eligible out-of-State provider that enrolls as a
participating provider in the State plan (or a waiver of such plan) through
such process shall be so enrolled for a 5-year period, unless the provider is
terminated or excluded from participation during such period.

“(B) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:

“(i) ELIGIBLE OUT-OF-STATE PROVIDER.—The term ‘eligible out-of-State provider’
means, with respect to a State, a provider—

“(I) that is located in any other State;

“(II) that—

“(aa) was determined by the Secretary to have a limited risk of fraud, waste,
and abuse for purposes of determining the level of screening to be conducted
under section 1866(j)(2), has been so screened under such section 1866(j)(2),
and is enrolled in the Medicare program under title XVIII; or

“(bb) was determined by the State agency administering or supervising the
administration of the State plan (or a waiver of such plan) of such other
State to have a limited risk of fraud, waste, and abuse for purposes of
determining the level of screening to be conducted under paragraph (1) of this
subsection, has been so screened under such paragraph (1), and is enrolled
under such State plan (or a waiver of such plan); and

“(III) that has not been—

“(aa) excluded from participation in any Federal health care program pursuant
to section 1128 or 1128A;

“(bb) excluded from participation in the State plan (or a waiver of such plan)
pursuant to part 1002 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, or State law;
or

“(cc) terminated from participating in a Federal health care program or the
State plan (or a waiver of such plan) for a reason described in paragraph
(8)(A).

“(ii) QUALIFYING INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘qualifying individual’ means an
individual under 21 years of age who is enrolled under the State plan (or
waiver of such plan).

“(iii) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means 1 of the 50 States or the District of
Columbia.”.

(b) Conforming amendments.—

(1) Section 1902(a)(77) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a(a)(77)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a))
is amended by inserting “enrollment,” after “screening,”.

(2) The subsection heading for section 1902(kk) of such Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396a(kk)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396a))
is amended by inserting “enrollment,” after “screening,”.

(3) Section 2107(e)(1)(G) of such Act ([42 U.S.C.
1397gg(e)(1)(G)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1397gg))
is amended by inserting “enrollment,” after “screening,”.

(c) Effective date.—The amendments made by this section shall apply beginning
on the date that is 4 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 44303. Delaying DSH reductions.

(a) In general.—Section 1923(f) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396r–4(f)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396r-4))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (7)(A)—

(A) in clause (i)—

(i) in the matter preceding subclause (I), by striking “2026 through 2028” and
inserting “2029 through 2031”; and

(ii) in subclause (II), by striking “or period”; and

(B) in clause (ii), by striking “2026 through 2028” and inserting “2029
through 2031”; and

(2) in paragraph (8), by striking “2027” and inserting “2031”.

(b) Tennessee DSH allotment.—Section 1923(f)(6)(A)(vi) of the Social Security
Act ([42 U.S.C.
1396r–4(f)(6)(A)(vi)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1396r-4))
is amended—

(1) in the header, by striking “2025” and inserting “2028”; and

(2) by striking “fiscal year 2025” and inserting “fiscal year 2028”.

SEC. 44304.  Modifying update to the conversion factor under the physician fee
schedule under the Medicare program.

Section 1848(d) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1395w–4(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1395w-4))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (1)—

(A) in subparagraph (A)—

(i) in the first sentence, by striking “and ending with 2025”; and

(ii) by striking the second sentence; and

(B) in subparagraph (D), by striking “(or, beginning with 2026, applicable
conversion factor)”; and

(2) by amending paragraph (20) to read as follows:

“(20) UPDATE FOR 2026 AND SUBSEQUENT YEARS.—The update to the single
conversion factor established in paragraph (1)(A)—

“(A) for 2026 is 75 percent of the Secretary’s estimate of the percentage
increase in the MEI (as defined in section 1842(i)(3)) for the year; and

“(B) for 2027 and each subsequent year is 10 percent of the Secretary’s
estimate of the percentage increase in the MEI for the year.”.

SEC. 44305.  Modernizing and Ensuring PBM Accountability.

(a) In general.—

(1) PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLANS.—Section 1860D–12 of the Social Security Act ([42
U.S.C.
1395w–112](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1395w-112))
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(h) Requirements relating to pharmacy benefit managers.—For plan years
beginning on or after January 1, 2028:

“(1) AGREEMENTS WITH PHARMACY BENEFIT MANAGERS.—Each contract entered into
with a PDP sponsor under this part with respect to a prescription drug plan
offered by such sponsor shall provide that any pharmacy benefit manager acting
on behalf of such sponsor has a written agreement with the PDP sponsor under
which the pharmacy benefit manager, and any affiliates of such pharmacy
benefit manager, as applicable, agree to meet the following requirements:

“(A) NO INCOME OTHER THAN BONA FIDE SERVICE FEES.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The pharmacy benefit manager and any affiliate of such
pharmacy benefit manager shall not derive any remuneration with respect to any
services provided on behalf of any entity or individual, in connection with
the utilization of covered part D drugs, from any such entity or individual
other than bona fide service fees, subject to clauses (ii) and (iii).

“(ii) INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.—For the purposes of this subsection, an incentive
payment (as determined by the Secretary) paid by a PDP sponsor to a pharmacy
benefit manager (or an affiliate of such pharmacy benefit manager) that is
performing services on behalf of such sponsor shall be deemed a ‘bona fide
service fee’ (even if such payment does not otherwise meet the definition of
such term under paragraph (7)(B)) if such payment is a flat dollar amount, is
consistent with fair market value (as specified by the Secretary), is related
to services actually performed by the pharmacy benefit manager or affiliate of
such pharmacy benefit manager, on behalf of the PDP sponsor making such
payment, in connection with the utilization of covered part D drugs, and meets
additional requirements, if any, as determined appropriate by the Secretary.

“(iii) CLARIFICATION ON REBATES AND DISCOUNTS USED TO LOWER COSTS FOR COVERED
PART D DRUGS.—Rebates, discounts, and other price concessions received by a
pharmacy benefit manager or an affiliate of a pharmacy benefit manager from
manufacturers, even if such price concessions are calculated as a percentage
of a drug’s price, shall not be considered a violation of the requirements of
clause (i) if they are fully passed through to a PDP sponsor and are compliant
with all regulatory and subregulatory requirements related to direct and
indirect remuneration for manufacturer rebates under this part, including in
cases where a PDP sponsor is acting as a pharmacy benefit manager on behalf of
a prescription drug plan offered by such PDP sponsor.

“(iv) EVALUATION OF REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS.—Components of subsets of
remuneration arrangements (such as fees or other forms of compensation paid to
or retained by the pharmacy benefit manager or affiliate of such pharmacy
benefit manager), as determined appropriate by the Secretary, between pharmacy
benefit managers or affiliates of such pharmacy benefit managers, as
applicable, and other entities involved in the dispensing or utilization of
covered part D drugs (including PDP sponsors, manufacturers, and pharmacies)
shall be subject to review by the Secretary, in consultation with the Office
of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, as
determined appropriate by the Secretary. The Secretary, in consultation with
the Office of the Inspector General, shall review whether remuneration under
such arrangements is consistent with fair market value (as specified by the
Secretary) through reviews and assessments of such remuneration, as determined
appropriate.

“(v) DISGORGEMENT.—The pharmacy benefit manager shall disgorge any
remuneration paid to such pharmacy benefit manager or an affiliate of such
pharmacy benefit manager in violation of this subparagraph to the PDP sponsor.

“(vi) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.—The pharmacy benefit manager shall—

“(I) enter into a written agreement with any affiliate of such pharmacy
benefit manager, under which the affiliate shall identify and disgorge any
remuneration described in clause (v) to the pharmacy benefit manager; and

“(II) attest, subject to any requirements determined appropriate by the
Secretary, that the pharmacy benefit manager has entered into a written
agreement described in subclause (I) with any relevant affiliate of the
pharmacy benefit manager.

“(B) TRANSPARENCY REGARDING GUARANTEES AND COST PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS.—The
pharmacy benefit manager shall—

“(i) define, interpret, and apply, in a fully transparent and consistent
manner for purposes of calculating or otherwise evaluating pharmacy benefit
manager performance against pricing guarantees or similar cost performance
measurements related to rebates, discounts, price concessions, or net costs,
terms such as—

“(I) ‘generic drug’, in a manner consistent with the definition of the term
under section 423.4 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations;

“(II) ‘brand name drug’, in a manner consistent with the definition of the
term under section 423.4 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations;

“(III) ‘specialty drug’;

“(IV) ‘rebate’; and

“(V) ‘discount’;

“(ii) identify any drugs, claims, or price concessions excluded from any
pricing guarantee or other cost performance measure in a clear and consistent
manner; and

“(iii) where a pricing guarantee or other cost performance measure is based on
a pricing benchmark other than the wholesale acquisition cost (as defined in
section 1847A(c)(6)(B)) of a drug, calculate and provide a wholesale
acquisition cost-based equivalent to the pricing guarantee or other cost
performance measure.

“(C) PROVISION OF INFORMATION.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than July 1 of each year, beginning in 2028, the
pharmacy benefit manager shall submit to the PDP sponsor, and to the
Secretary, a report, in accordance with this subparagraph, and shall make such
report available to such sponsor at no cost to such sponsor in a format
specified by the Secretary under paragraph (5). Each such report shall
include, with respect to such PDP sponsor and each plan offered by such
sponsor, the following information with respect to the previous plan year:

“(I) A list of all drugs covered by the plan that were dispensed including,
with respect to each such drug—

“(aa) the brand name, generic or non-proprietary name, and National Drug Code;

“(bb) the number of plan enrollees for whom the drug was dispensed, the total
number of prescription claims for the drug (including original prescriptions
and refills, counted as separate claims), and the total number of dosage units
of the drug dispensed;

“(cc) the number of prescription claims described in item (bb) by each type of
dispensing channel through which the drug was dispensed, including retail,
mail order, specialty pharmacy, long term care pharmacy, home infusion
pharmacy, or other types of pharmacies or providers;

“(dd) the average wholesale acquisition cost, listed as cost per day’s supply,
cost per dosage unit, and cost per typical course of treatment (as
applicable);

“(ee) the average wholesale price for the drug, listed as price per day’s
supply, price per dosage unit, and price per typical course of treatment (as
applicable);

“(ff) the total out-of-pocket spending by plan enrollees on such drug after
application of any benefits under the plan, including plan enrollee spending
through copayments, coinsurance, and deductibles;

“(gg) total rebates paid by the manufacturer on the drug as reported under the
Detailed DIR Report (or any successor report) submitted by such sponsor to the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services;

“(hh) all other direct or indirect remuneration on the drug as reported under
the Detailed DIR Report (or any successor report) submitted by such sponsor to
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services;

“(ii) the average pharmacy reimbursement amount paid by the plan for the drug
in the aggregate and disaggregated by dispensing channel identified in item
(cc);

“(jj) the average National Average Drug Acquisition Cost (NADAC); and

“(kk) total manufacturer-derived revenue, inclusive of bona fide service fees,
attributable to the drug and retained by the pharmacy benefit manager and any
affiliate of such pharmacy benefit manager.

“(II) In the case of a pharmacy benefit manager that has an affiliate that is
a retail, mail order, or specialty pharmacy, with respect to drugs covered by
such plan that were dispensed, the following information:

“(aa) The percentage of total prescriptions that were dispensed by pharmacies
that are an affiliate of the pharmacy benefit manager for each drug.

“(bb) The interquartile range of the total combined costs paid by the plan and
plan enrollees, per dosage unit, per course of treatment, per 30-day supply,
and per 90-day supply for each drug dispensed by pharmacies that are not an
affiliate of the pharmacy benefit manager and that are included in the
pharmacy network of such plan.

“(cc) The interquartile range of the total combined costs paid by the plan and
plan enrollees, per dosage unit, per course of treatment, per 30-day supply,
and per 90-day supply for each drug dispensed by pharmacies that are an
affiliate of the pharmacy benefit manager and that are included in the
pharmacy network of such plan.

“(dd) The lowest total combined cost paid by the plan and plan enrollees, per
dosage unit, per course of treatment, per 30-day supply, and per 90-day
supply, for each drug that is available from any pharmacy included in the
pharmacy network of such plan.

“(ee) The difference between the average acquisition cost of the affiliate,
such as a pharmacy or other entity that acquires prescription drugs, that
initially acquires the drug and the amount reported under subclause (I)(jj)
for each drug.

“(ff) A list inclusive of the brand name, generic or non-proprietary name, and
National Drug Code of covered part D drugs subject to an agreement with a
covered entity under section 340B of the Public Health Service Act for which
the pharmacy benefit manager or an affiliate of the pharmacy benefit manager
had a contract or other arrangement with such a covered entity in the service
area of such plan.

“(III) Where a drug approved under section 505(c) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (referred to in this subclause as the ‘listed drug’) is
covered by the plan, the following information:

“(aa) A list of currently marketed generic drugs approved under section 505(j)
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act pursuant to an application that
references such listed drug that are not covered by the plan, are covered on
the same formulary tier or a formulary tier typically associated with higher
cost-sharing than the listed drug, or are subject to utilization management
that the listed drug is not subject to.

“(bb) The estimated average beneficiary cost-sharing under the plan for a
30-day supply of the listed drug.

“(cc) Where a generic drug listed under item (aa) is on a formulary tier
typically associated with higher cost-sharing than the listed drug, the
estimated average cost-sharing that a beneficiary would have paid for a 30-day
supply of each of the generic drugs described in item (aa), had the plan
provided coverage for such drugs on the same formulary tier as the listed
drug.

“(dd) A written justification for providing more favorable coverage of the
listed drug than the generic drugs described in item (aa).

“(ee) The number of currently marketed generic drugs approved under section
505(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act pursuant to an application
that references such listed drug.

“(IV) Where a reference product (as defined in section 351(i) of the Public
Health Service Act) is covered by the plan, the following information:

“(aa) A list of currently marketed biosimilar biological products licensed
under section 351(k) of the Public Health Service Act pursuant to an
application that refers to such reference product that are not covered by the
plan, are covered on the same formulary tier or a formulary tier typically
associated with higher cost-sharing than the reference product, or are subject
to utilization management that the reference product is not subject to.

“(bb) The estimated average beneficiary cost-sharing under the plan for a
30-day supply of the reference product.

“(cc) Where a biosimilar biological product listed under item (aa) is on a
formulary tier typically associated with higher cost-sharing than the
reference product, the estimated average cost-sharing that a beneficiary would
have paid for a 30-day supply of each of the biosimilar biological products
described in item (aa), had the plan provided coverage for such products on
the same formulary tier as the reference product.

“(dd) A written justification for providing more favorable coverage of the
reference product than the biosimilar biological product described in item
(aa).

“(ee) The number of currently marketed biosimilar biological products licensed
under section 351(k) of the Public Health Service Act, pursuant to an
application that refers to such reference product.

“(V) Total gross spending on covered part D drugs by the plan, not net of
rebates, fees, discounts, or other direct or indirect remuneration.

“(VI) The total amount retained by the pharmacy benefit manager or an
affiliate of such pharmacy benefit manager in revenue related to utilization
of covered part D drugs under that plan, inclusive of bona fide service fees.

“(VII) The total spending on covered part D drugs net of rebates, fees,
discounts, or other direct and indirect remuneration by the plan.

“(VIII) An explanation of any benefit design parameters under such plan that
encourage plan enrollees to fill prescriptions at pharmacies that are an
affiliate of such pharmacy benefit manager, such as mail and specialty home
delivery programs, and retail and mail auto-refill programs.

“(IX) The following information:

“(aa) A list of all brokers, consultants, advisors, and auditors that receive
compensation from the pharmacy benefit manager or an affiliate of such
pharmacy benefit manager for referrals, consulting, auditing, or other
services offered to PDP sponsors related to pharmacy benefit management
services.

“(bb) The amount of compensation provided by such pharmacy benefit manager or
affiliate to each such broker, consultant, advisor, and auditor.

“(cc) The methodology for calculating the amount of compensation provided by
such pharmacy benefit manager or affiliate, for each such broker, consultant,
advisor, and auditor.

“(X) A list of all affiliates of the pharmacy benefit manager.

“(XI) A summary document submitted in a standardized template developed by the
Secretary that includes such information described in subclauses (I) through
(X).

“(ii) WRITTEN EXPLANATION OF CONTRACTS OR AGREEMENTS WITH DRUG MANUFACTURERS.—

“(I) IN GENERAL.—The pharmacy benefit manager shall, not later than 30 days
after the finalization of any contract or agreement between such pharmacy
benefit manager or an affiliate of such pharmacy benefit manager and a drug
manufacturer (or subsidiary, agent, or entity affiliated with such drug
manufacturer) that makes rebates, discounts, payments, or other financial
incentives related to one or more covered part D drugs or other prescription
drugs, as applicable, of the manufacturer directly or indirectly contingent
upon coverage, formulary placement, or utilization management conditions on
any other covered part D drugs or other prescription drugs, as applicable,
submit to the PDP sponsor a written explanation of such contract or agreement.

“(II) REQUIREMENTS.—A written explanation under subclause (I) shall—

“(aa) include the manufacturer subject to the contract or agreement, all
covered part D drugs and other prescription drugs, as applicable, subject to
the contract or agreement and the manufacturers of such drugs, and a high-
level description of the terms of such contract or agreement and how such
terms apply to such drugs; and

“(bb) be certified by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or
General Counsel of such pharmacy benefit manager, or affiliate of such
pharmacy benefit manager, as applicable, or an individual delegated with the
authority to sign on behalf of one of these officers, who reports directly to
the officer.

“(III) DEFINITION OF OTHER PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.—For purposes of this clause,
the term ‘other prescription drugs’ means prescription drugs covered as
supplemental benefits under this part or prescription drugs paid outside of
this part.

“(D) AUDIT RIGHTS.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Not less than once a year, at the request of the PDP sponsor,
the pharmacy benefit manager shall allow for an audit of the pharmacy benefit
manager to ensure compliance with all terms and conditions under the written
agreement described in this paragraph and the accuracy of information reported
under subparagraph (C).

“(ii) AUDITOR.—The PDP sponsor shall have the right to select an auditor. The
pharmacy benefit manager shall not impose any limitations on the selection of
such auditor.

“(iii) PROVISION OF INFORMATION.—The pharmacy benefit manager shall make
available to such auditor all records, data, contracts, and other information
necessary to confirm the accuracy of information provided under subparagraph
(C), subject to reasonable restrictions on how such information must be
reported to prevent redisclosure of such information.

“(iv) TIMING.—The pharmacy benefit manager must provide information under
clause (iii) and other information, data, and records relevant to the audit to
such auditor within 6 months of the initiation of the audit and respond to
requests for additional information from such auditor within 30 days after the
request for additional information.

“(v) INFORMATION FROM AFFILIATES.—The pharmacy benefit manager shall be
responsible for providing to such auditor information required to be reported
under subparagraph (C) or under clause (iii) of this subparagraph that is
owned or held by an affiliate of such pharmacy benefit manager.

“(2) ENFORCEMENT.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Each PDP sponsor shall—

“(i) disgorge to the Secretary any amounts disgorged to the PDP sponsor by a
pharmacy benefit manager under paragraph (1)(A)(v);

“(ii) require, in a written agreement with any pharmacy benefit manager acting
on behalf of such sponsor or affiliate of such pharmacy benefit manager, that
such pharmacy benefit manager or affiliate reimburse the PDP sponsor for any
civil money penalty imposed on the PDP sponsor as a result of the failure of
the pharmacy benefit manager or affiliate to meet the requirements of
paragraph (1) that are applicable to the pharmacy benefit manager or affiliate
under the agreement; and

“(iii) require, in a written agreement with any such pharmacy benefit manager
acting on behalf of such sponsor or affiliate of such pharmacy benefit
manager, that such pharmacy benefit manager or affiliate be subject to
punitive remedies for breach of contract for failure to comply with the
requirements applicable under paragraph (1).

“(B) REPORTING OF ALLEGED VIOLATIONS.—The Secretary shall make available and
maintain a mechanism for manufacturers, PDP sponsors, pharmacies, and other
entities that have contractual relationships with pharmacy benefit managers or
affiliates of such pharmacy benefit managers to report, on a confidential
basis, alleged violations of paragraph (1)(A) or subparagraph (C).

“(C) ANTI-RETALIATION AND ANTI-COERCION.—Consistent with applicable Federal or
State law, a PDP sponsor shall not—

“(i) retaliate against an individual or entity for reporting an alleged
violation under subparagraph (B); or

“(ii) coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with the ability of an
individual or entity to report any such alleged violations.

“(3) CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Each PDP sponsor shall furnish to the Secretary (at a time
and in a manner specified by the Secretary) an annual certification of
compliance with this subsection, as well as such information as the Secretary
determines necessary to carry out this subsection.

“(B) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary may implement this paragraph by program
instruction or otherwise.

“(4) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as—

“(A) prohibiting flat dispensing fees or reimbursement or payment for
ingredient costs (including customary, industry-standard discounts directly
related to drug acquisition that are retained by pharmacies or wholesalers) to
entities that acquire or dispense prescription drugs; or

“(B) modifying regulatory requirements or sub-regulatory program instruction
or guidance related to pharmacy payment, reimbursement, or dispensing fees.

“(5) STANDARD FORMATS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than June 1, 2027, the Secretary shall specify
standard, machine-readable formats for pharmacy benefit managers to submit
annual reports required under paragraph (1)(C)(i).

“(B) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary may implement this paragraph by program
instruction or otherwise.

“(6) CONFIDENTIALITY.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Information disclosed by a pharmacy benefit manager, an
affiliate of a pharmacy benefit manager, a PDP sponsor, or a pharmacy under
this subsection that is not otherwise publicly available or available for
purchase shall not be disclosed by the Secretary or a PDP sponsor receiving
the information, except that the Secretary may disclose the information for
the following purposes:

“(i) As the Secretary determines necessary to carry out this part.

“(ii) To permit the Comptroller General to review the information provided.

“(iii) To permit the Executive Director of the Medicare Payment Advisory
Commission to review the information provided.

“(iv) To the Attorney General for the purposes of conducting oversight and
enforcement under this title.

“(v) To the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services
in accordance with its authorities under the Inspector General Act of 1978
(section 406 of title 5, United States Code), and other applicable statutes.

“(B) RESTRICTION ON USE OF INFORMATION.—The Secretary, the Comptroller
General, and the Executive Director of the Medicare Payment Advisory
Commission shall not report on or disclose information disclosed pursuant to
subparagraph (A) to the public in a manner that would identify—

“(i) a specific pharmacy benefit manager, affiliate, pharmacy, manufacturer,
wholesaler, PDP sponsor, or plan; or

“(ii) contract prices, rebates, discounts, or other remuneration for specific
drugs in a manner that may allow the identification of specific contracting
parties or of such specific drugs.

“(7) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection:

“(A) AFFILIATE.—The term ‘affiliate’ means, with respect to any pharmacy
benefit manager or PDP sponsor, any entity that, directly or indirectly—

“(i) owns or is owned by, controls or is controlled by, or is otherwise
related in any ownership structure to such pharmacy benefit manager or PDP
sponsor; or

“(ii) acts as a contractor, principal, or agent to such pharmacy benefit
manager or PDP sponsor, insofar as such contractor, principal, or agent
performs any of the functions described under subparagraph (C).

“(B) BONA FIDE SERVICE FEE.—The term ‘bona fide service fee’ means a fee that
is reflective of the fair market value (as specified by the Secretary, through
notice and comment rulemaking) for a bona fide, itemized service actually
performed on behalf of an entity, that the entity would otherwise perform (or
contract for) in the absence of the service arrangement and that is not passed
on in whole or in part to a client or customer, whether or not the entity
takes title to the drug. Such fee must be a flat dollar amount and shall not
be directly or indirectly based on, or contingent upon—

“(i) drug price, such as wholesale acquisition cost or drug benchmark price
(such as average wholesale price);

“(ii) the amount of discounts, rebates, fees, or other direct or indirect
remuneration with respect to covered part D drugs dispensed to enrollees in a
prescription drug plan, except as permitted pursuant to paragraph (1)(A)(ii);

“(iii) coverage or formulary placement decisions or the volume or value of any
referrals or business generated between the parties to the arrangement; or

“(iv) any other amounts or methodologies prohibited by the Secretary.

“(C) PHARMACY BENEFIT MANAGER.—The term ‘pharmacy benefit manager’ means any
person or entity that, either directly or through an intermediary, acts as a
price negotiator or group purchaser on behalf of a PDP sponsor or prescription
drug plan, or manages the prescription drug benefits provided by such sponsor
or plan, including the processing and payment of claims for prescription
drugs, the performance of drug utilization review, the processing of drug
prior authorization requests, the adjudication of appeals or grievances
related to the prescription drug benefit, contracting with network pharmacies,
controlling the cost of covered part D drugs, or the provision of related
services. Such term includes any person or entity that carries out one or more
of the activities described in the preceding sentence, irrespective of whether
such person or entity calls itself a ‘pharmacy benefit manager’.”.

(2) MA–PD PLANS.—Section 1857(f)(3) of the Social Security Act ([42 U.S.C.
1395w–27(f)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=1395w-27))
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(F) REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO PHARMACY BENEFIT MANAGERS.—For plan years
beginning on or after January 1, 2028, section 1860D–12(h).”.

(3) NONAPPLICATION OF PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT.—[Chapter
35](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title44-chapter35-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 44, United States Code,
shall not apply to the implementation of this subsection.

(4) FUNDING.—

(A) SECRETARY.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Program
Management Account, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, $113,000,000 for fiscal year 2025, to remain available until
expended, to carry out this subsection.

(B) OIG.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to
the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, out of
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $20,000,000 for fiscal
year 2025, to remain available until expended, to carry out this subsection.

(b) MedPAC reports on agreements with pharmacy benefit managers with respect
to prescription drug plans and MA-PD plans.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission shall submit to
Congress the following reports:

(A) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than the first March 15 occurring after the date
that is 2 years after the date on which the Secretary makes the data available
to the Commission, a report regarding agreements with pharmacy benefit
managers with respect to prescription drug plans and MA–PD plans. Such report
shall include, to the extent practicable—

(i) a description of trends and patterns, including relevant averages, totals,
and other figures for the types of information submitted;

(ii) an analysis of any differences in agreements and their effects on plan
enrollee out-of-pocket spending and average pharmacy reimbursement, and other
impacts; and

(iii) any recommendations the Commission determines appropriate.

(B) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after the date on which the
Commission submits the initial report under subparagraph (A), a report
describing any changes with respect to the information described in
subparagraph (A) over time, together with any recommendations the Commission
determines appropriate.

(2) FUNDING.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated
to the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000 for fiscal year 2026, to remain
available until expended, to carry out this subsection.
