TITLE V—Committee on Financial Services

SEC. 50001. Green and resilient retrofit program for multifamily family
housing.

The unobligated balance of amounts made available under section 30002(a) of
[Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(commonly referred to as the “Inflation Reduction Act”; 136 Stat. 2027) are
rescinded.

SEC. 50002.  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.

(a) During the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and
ending on the transfer date—

(1) all intellectual property retained by the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (“Board”) in support of its programs for registration,
standard-setting, and inspection shall be shared with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“Commission”); and

(2) pending enforcement and disciplinary actions of the Board shall be
referred to the Commission or another Federal functional regulator (as defined
in section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ([15 U.S.C.
6809](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=6809))) in
accordance with section 105 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ([15 U.S.C.
7215](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=7215)).

(b) Effective on the transfer date—

(1) all unobligated fees collected under section 109(d) of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 shall be transferred to the general fund of the Treasury, and the
Commission may not collect fees under such section 109(d);

(2) the duties and powers of the Board in effect as of the day before the
transfer date, other than those described in section 107 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 ([15 U.S.C.
7217](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=7217)),
shall be transferred to the Commission;

(3) the Commission may not use funds to carry out section 107 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002 ([15 U.S.C.
7217](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=7217)) for
activities related to overseeing the Board;

(4) the Board shall transfer all intellectual property described in subsection
(a)(1) to the Commission;

(5) existing processes and regulations of the Board, including existing Board
auditing standards, shall continue in effect unless modified through rule
making by the Commission; and

(6) in connection with the duties and powers transferred under paragraph (2),
any reference to the Board in any law implemented by a Federal functional
regulator (as defined in section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ([15 U.S.C.
6809](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=6809))), in
any rule or guidance issued by a Federal functional regulator (as defined in
section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ([15 U.S.C.
6809](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=6809))), or
in any records or other documents in the possession of a Federal functional
regulator (as defined in section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ([15 U.S.C.
6809](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=15&section=6809))),
shall be deemed a reference to the Commission.

(c) Any employee of the Board as of the date of enactment of this Act may—

(1) be offered equivalent positions on the Commission staff, as determined by
the Commission, and submit to the Commission’s standard employment policies;
and

(2) receive pay that is not higher than the highest paid employee of similarly
situated employees of the Commission.

(d) In this section, the term “transfer date” means the date established by
the Commission for purposes of this section, except that such date may not be
later than the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 50003. Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.

Section 1017(a)(2) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 ([12
U.S.C.
5497(a)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=12&section=5497))
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (A)(iii)—

(A) by striking “12 percent” and inserting “5 percent”; and

(B) by striking “2013” and inserting “2025”; and

(2) by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting the following:

“(C) LIMITATION ON UNOBLIGATED BALANCES.—With respect to a fiscal year, the
amount of unobligated balances of the Bureau may not exceed 5 percent of the
dollar amount referred to in subparagraph (A)(iii), as adjusted under
subparagraph (B). The Director shall transfer any excess amount of such
unobligated balances to the general fund of the Treasury.”.

SEC. 50004. Consumer Financial Civil Penalty Fund.

Section 1017(d) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 ([12 U.S.C.
5497(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=12&section=5497))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (2)—

(A) in the first sentence, by inserting “direct” before “victims”; and

(B) by striking the second sentence; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

“(3) TREATMENT OF EXCESS AMOUNTS.—With respect to a civil penalty described
under paragraph (1), if the Bureau makes payments to all of the direct victims
of activities for which that civil penalty was imposed, the Bureau shall
transfer all amounts that remain in the Civil Penalty Fund with respect to
that civil penalty to the general fund of the Treasury.”.

SEC. 50005. Financial Research Fund.

Section 155 of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 ([12 U.S.C.
5345](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=12&section=5345)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:

“(e) Limitation on assessments and the Financial Research Fund.—

“(1) LIMITATION ON ASSESSMENTS.—Assessments may not be collected under
subsection (d) if the assessments would result in—

“(A) the Financial Research Fund exceeding the average annual budget amount;
or

“(B) the total assessments collected during a single fiscal year exceeding the
average annual budget amount.

“(2) TRANSFER OF EXCESS FUNDS.—Any amounts in the Financial Research Fund
exceeding the average annual budget amount shall be deposited into the general
fund of the Treasury.

“(3) AVERAGE ANNUAL BUDGET AMOUNT DEFINED.—In this subsection the term
‘average annual budget amount’ means the annual average, over the 3 most
recently completed fiscal years, of the expenses of the Council in carrying
out the duties and responsibilities of the Council that were paid by the
Office using amounts obtained through assessments under subsection (d).”.
