TITLE X—Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

SEC. 100001. Coast Guard assets necessary to secure the maritime border and
interdict migrants and drugs.

(a) In general.—For the purpose of the acquisition, sustainment, improvement,
and operation of United States Coast Guard assets, in addition to amounts
otherwise made available, there is appropriated to the Commandant of the Coast
Guard for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2029—

(1) $571,500,000 for fixed wing aircraft and spare parts, training simulators,
support equipment, and program management for such aircraft;

(2) $1,283,000,000 for rotary wing aircraft and spare parts, training
simulators, support equipment, and program management for such aircraft;

(3) $140,000,000 for long-range unmanned aircraft systems and base stations,
support equipment, and program management for such systems;

(4) $4,300,000,000 for Offshore Patrol Cutters and spare parts and program
management for such Cutters;

(5) $1,000,000,000 for Fast Response Cutters and spare parts and program
management for such Cutters;

(6) $4,300,000,000 for Polar Security Cutters and spare parts and program
management for such Cutters;

(7) $4,978,000,000 for Arctic Security Cutters and domestic icebreakers and
spare parts and program management for such Cutters and icebreakers;

(8) $3,154,500,000 for design, planning, engineering, construction of, and
program management for shoreside infrastructure, of which—

(A) $400,000,000 is provided for hangers and maintenance and crew facilities
for the fixed wing aircraft for which funds are appropriated under paragraph
(1) and rotary wing aircraft for which funds are appropriated under paragraph
(2);

(B) $2,329,500,000 is provided for homeports for the Cutters for which funds
are appropriated under paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7), National Security
Cutters, and other Fast Response Cutters; and

(C) $425,000,000 is provided for design, planning, engineering, construction
of, and program management for enlisted boot camp barracks, multi-use training
centers, and other related facilities;

(9) $1,300,000,000 for aviation, cutter, shoreside facility depot maintenance,
and C5I service maintenance, of which $500,000,000 is provided to acquire,
procure, or construct a floating dry dock under subsection (b) and conduct
channel dredging necessary to allow Cutters for which funds are appropriated
under paragraph (4) and National Security Cutters to be maintained and
repaired in such dry dock; and

(10) $180,000,000 for equipment and services for maritime domain awareness, of
which $75,000,000 is provided to contract the services of, acquire, or procure
autonomous maritime systems.

(b) Requirements.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Commandant may not
acquire, procure, or construct a floating dry dock for the Coast Guard Yard
with amounts appropriated under subsection (a).

(2) PERMISSIBLE ACQUISITION, PROCUREMENT, OR CONSTRUCTION
METHODS.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this subsection and section 1105(a)
of title 14, United States Code, the Commandant may, through September 30,
2030—

(A) provide for an entity other than the Coast Guard to contract for the
acquisition, procurement, or construction of a floating dry dock by contract,
purchase, or other agreement;

(B) construct a floating dry dock at the Coast Guard Yard; or

(C) acquire or procure a commercially available floating dry dock.

(3) FLOATING DRY DOCK DEFINED.—In this section, the term “floating dry dock”
means equipment that is—

(A) documented under [chapter
121](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title46-chapter121-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 46, United States
Code; and

(B) capable of meeting the lifting and maintenance requirements of an Offshore
Patrol Cutter or a National Security Cutter.

(c) Limitation.—Not more than 15 percent of the amounts provided in paragraph
(9) of subsection (a) shall be available for design, planning, and engineering
of the facilities described in such paragraph.

(d) Application.—In carrying out acquisitions or procurements for which funds
are appropriated under subsection (a), sections 1131, 1132, and 1133 of title
14, United States Code, shall not apply.

(e) Entity other than the Coast Guard.—Notwithstanding section 1105(a) of
title 14, United States Code, in carrying out acquisition, procurement, or
construction of Arctic Security Cutters or domestic icebreakers for which
funds are appropriated under subsection (a)(7), the Commandant may provide for
an entity other than the Coast Guard to contract for such acquisition,
procurement, or construction.

(f) Compliance with applicable reporting requirements.—None of the amounts
provided in—

(1) this section may be obligated or expended during any fiscal year in which
the Commandant is not compliant with sections 5102 and 5103 (excluding section
5103(e)) of title 14, United States Code; and

(2) paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) may be obligated or expended
until the Commandant provides the report required under section 11217 of the
James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023
([Public Law
117–263](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ263/pdf/PLAW-117publ263.pdf))
to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of
the Senate.

(g) Notification requirement.—The Commandant shall notify the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate not less than
1 week prior to taking any procurement actions impacting estimated costs or
timelines for acquisitions or procurements funded with amounts appropriated
under this section.

(h) Expenditure plan.—Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a detailed expenditure plan,
including projected project timelines for each acquisition and procurement
funded under this section and a list of project locations to be funded under
paragraphs (8) and (9) of subsection (a).

(i) Exception.—If the President authorizes an exception under section 1151(b)
of title 14, United States Code, for any Coast Guard vessel, or the hull or
superstructure of such vessel for which funds are appropriated under
paragraphs (4) through (7) of subsection (a), no such funds shall be obligated
until the President submits to the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a written explanation of the
circumstances requiring such an exception in the national security interest,
including—

(1) a confirmation that there are insufficient qualified United States
shipyards to meet the national security interest without such exception; and

(2) actions taken by the President to enable qualified United States shipyards
to meet national security requirements prior to the issuance of such an
exception.

SEC. 100002. Vessel tonnage duties.

Section 60301 of title 46, United States Code, is amended—

(1) in subsection (a) by striking “, for fiscal years 2006 through 2010, and 2
cents per ton, not to exceed a total of 10 cents per ton per year, for each
fiscal year thereafter,”; and

(2) in subsection (b) by striking “, for fiscal years 2006 through 2010, and 6
cents per ton, not to exceed a total of 30 cents per ton per year, for each
fiscal year thereafter,”.

SEC. 100003. Registration fee on motor vehicles.

(a) In general.—[Chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title23-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 23, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the following:

** “§ 180. Registration fee on motor vehicles.

**

“(a) In general.—The Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration shall
impose for each year the following registration fee amounts on the owner of a
vehicle registered for operation by a State motor vehicle department:

“(1) $250 for a covered electric vehicle.

“(2) $100 for a covered hybrid vehicle.

“(b) Withholding of funds for noncompliance.—The Administrator shall withhold,
from amounts required to be apportioned to any State under section 104(b), an
amount equal to 125 percent to the amount required to be remitted under
subsection (c)(2). The Administrator shall withhold the amount on the first
day of each fiscal year beginning after September 30, 2026, in which the State
does not meet the requirements of subsection (c).

“(c) Collection and remittance of fee.—

“(1) COLLECTION OF FEE.—A State motor vehicle department shall—

“(A) incorporate the collection of the fees established under subsection (a)
into the vehicle registration and renewal processes administered by such
department, so long as such fees are imposed for each year in which the fees
are required; or

“(B) obtain approval from the Administrator to establish an alternate means of
compliance for the collection of such fees that is acceptable to the
Administrator.

“(2) REMITTANCE OF FEE.—Not later than 30 days after the last day of each
month, a State motor vehicle department shall remit to the Administrator the
balance of the total fee amounts collected under this section in the preceding
month less the portion reserved for administrative expenses under subsection
(e).

“(d) Fee assessment.—The amounts specified in subsection (a) shall be
increased on an annual basis to account for the rate of inflation each fiscal
year in accordance with the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers of
the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

“(e) Administrative expenses.—In any fiscal year in which a State is in
compliance with this section, such State may retain an amount not to exceed 1
percent of the total fees collected under this section for administrative
expenses.

“(f) Applicability of fees.—The fees imposed under paragraphs (1) and (2) of
subsection (a) shall terminate on October 1, 2035.

“(g) Definitions.—In this section:

“(1) COVERED ELECTRIC VEHICLE.—The term ‘covered electric vehicle’ means a
covered motor vehicle with an electric motor as the sole means of propulsion
of such vehicle.

“(2) COVERED MOTOR VEHICLE.—The term ‘covered motor vehicle’ has the meaning
given the term ‘motor vehicle’ under section 154(a) but excludes a motor
vehicle that is a covered farm vehicle or commercial motor vehicle (as such
terms are defined in section 390.5 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations).

“(3) COVERED HYBRID VEHICLE.—The term ‘covered hybrid vehicle’ means a covered
motor vehicle propelled by a combination of an electric motor and an internal
combustion engine or other power source and components thereof.”.

(b) Implementation of certain processes.—

(1) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration
shall provide grants to State motor vehicle departments to implement a process
to carry out section 180 of title 23, United States Code.

(2) FUNDING.—Out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
$104,000,000 is to remain available until September 30, 2029, beginning in the
first fiscal year following the date of enactment of this Act, for grants
under paragraph (1).

(3) ELIGIBLE AMOUNTS.—Each State motor vehicle department may receive not more
than $2,000,000 under this subsection.

(c) Regulations.—The Administrator shall issue such regulations and guidance
as are necessary to—

(1) carry out section 180 of title 23, United States Code (as added by this
Act); and

(2) establish a process for the timely and accurate remittance of fees
collected under such section through an electronic method.

(d) Report.—Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on
Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report on the status of the
implementation of section 180 of title 23, United States Code (as added by
this Act).

(e) Clerical amendment.—The analysis for [chapter
1](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title23-chapter1-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 23, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the following:

  
“180. Registration fee on motor vehicles.”.

SEC. 100004.  Deposit of registration fee on motor vehicles.

Any amounts accrued pursuant to section 180 of title 23, United States Code
(as added by this Act), shall be deposited into the Highway Trust Fund.

SEC. 100005. Motor carrier data.

(a) Public confirmation of authorized motor carriers.—There is appropriated
$5,000,000 to the Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration to establish a public website to present data on motor
carriers, as such term is defined in section 13102 of title 49, United States
Code, in a manner that indicates whether each motor carrier meets or does not
meet all Administration operating requirements, including by displaying 1 of
the following statements for each motor carrier:

(1) “This motor carrier meets Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
operating requirements and is authorized to operate on the nation’s
roadways.”.

(2) “This motor carrier does not meet Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration operating requirements and is not authorized to operate on the
nation’s roadways.”.

(b) Usage fee.—The Administrator shall assess an annual fee of $100 on each
person seeking access to the website established under subsection (a). In each
fiscal year through fiscal year 2033, monies collected under this subsection
shall be—

(1) credited to the account in the Treasury from which the Administrator
incurs expenses for establishing, maintaining, and updating the website
required to be established under subsection (a); and

(2) available for establishing, maintaining, and updating such website without
further appropriation.

(c) Determination.—A broker, freight forwarder, or household goods freight
forwarder, as such terms are defined in section 13102 of title 49, United
States Code, that uses the website established under subsection (a) to ensure
that a motor carrier engaged by such broker, freight forwarder, or household
goods freight forwarder meets Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
operating requirements shall be considered to have taken reasonable and
prudent determinations in engaging such motor carrier.

SEC. 100006.  IRA rescissions.

(a) Repeal of funding for alternative fuel and low-emission aviation
technology program.—The unobligated balances of amounts made available to
carry out section 40007 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
([49 U.S.C.
44504](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=49&section=44504)
note) (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) are
permanently rescinded.

(b) Repeal of funding for neighborhood access and equity grant program.—The
unobligated balances of amounts made available to carry out section 177 of
title 23, United States Code, (as in effect on the day before the date of
enactment of this Act) are permanently rescinded.

(c) Repeal of funding for Federal building assistance.—The unobligated
balances of amounts made available to carry out section 60502 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(136 Stat. 2083) (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this
Act) are permanently rescinded.

(d) Repeal of funding for use of low-carbon materials for Federal building
assistance.— The unobligated balances of amounts made available to carry out
section 60503 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(136 Stat. 2083) (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this
Act) are permanently rescinded.

(e) Repeal of funding for General Services Administration emerging
technologies.—The unobligated balances of amounts made available to carry out
section 60504 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
(136 Stat. 2083) (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this
Act) are permanently rescinded.

(f) Repeal of environmental review implementation funds.—The unobligated
balances of amounts made available to carry out section 178 of title 23,
United States Code, (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of
this Act) are permanently rescinded.

(g) Repeal of funding for low-carbon transportation materials grants.— The
unobligated balances of amounts made available to carry out section 179 of
title 23, United States Code, (as in effect on the day before the date of
enactment of this Act) are permanently rescinded.

SEC. 100007. Air traffic control staffing and modernization.

(a) In general.—For the purpose of the acquisition, construction, sustainment,
improvement, and operation of facilities and equipment necessary to improve or
maintain aviation safety, and for personnel expenses related to such
facilities and equipment, in addition to amounts otherwise made available,
there is appropriated to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2029—

(1) $2,160,000,000 for air traffic control tower and terminal radar approach
control facility replacement, of which not less than $240,000,000 shall be
available for Contract Tower Program air traffic control tower replacement and
airport sponsor-owned air traffic control tower replacement;

(2) $3,000,000,000 for radar systems replacement;

(3) $4,750,000,000 for telecommunications infrastructure and systems
replacement;

(4) $500,000,000 for runway safety projects, airport surface surveillance
projects, and to carry out section 347 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2024;

(5) $550,000,000 for unstaffed infrastructure sustainment and replacement;

(6) $300,000,000 to carry out section 619 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of
2024;

(7) $260,000,000 to carry out section 44745 of title 49, United States Code;
and

(8) $1,000,000,000 for air traffic controller recruitment, retention,
training, and advanced training technologies.

(b) Quarterly reporting.—Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment
of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to
Congress a report that describes any expenditures under this section.

SEC. 100008.  John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.

(a) In general.—In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is
appropriated for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, $256,657,000, to remain available until September 30,
2029, for necessary expenses for capital repair, restoration, maintenance
backlog, and security structures of the building and site of the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.

(b) Administrative costs.—Of the amounts made available under subsection (a),
not more than 3 percent may be used for administrative costs necessary to
carry out this section.
