TITLE VIII—Committee on Natural Resources

subtitle A—Energy and Mineral Resources

PART 1—Oil and gas

SEC. 80101.  Onshore oil and gas lease sales.

(a) Requirement to immediately resume onshore oil and gas lease sales.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Interior shall immediately resume
quarterly onshore oil and gas lease sales in compliance with the Mineral
Leasing Act.

(2) REQUIREMENT.—The Secretary of the Interior shall ensure—

(A) that any oil and gas lease sale pursuant to paragraph (1) is conducted
immediately on completion of all requirements under the Mineral Leasing Act;
and

(B) that the processes described in subparagraph (A) are conducted in a timely
manner to ensure compliance with subsection (b)(1).

(3) LEASE OF OIL AND GAS LANDS.—Section 17(b)(1)(A) of the Mineral Leasing Act
([30 U.S.C.
226(b)(1)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=226))
is amended by inserting “Eligible lands comprise all lands subject to leasing
under this Act and not excluded from leasing by a statutory or regulatory
prohibition. Land shall be considered available under the preceding sentence
if the land has been designated as open for leasing under a land use plan
developed or revised under section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 and has been nominated for leasing through the
submission of an expression of interest, is subject to drainage (as described
in subsection (j)) in the absence of leasing, or is otherwise designated as
available pursuant to regulations issued by the Secretary.” after “sales are
necessary.”.

(b) Quarterly lease sales.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with the Mineral Leasing Act, each fiscal year,
the Secretary of the Interior shall conduct a minimum of four oil and gas
lease sales in each of the following States:

(A) Wyoming.

(B) New Mexico.

(C) Colorado.

(D) Utah.

(E) Montana.

(F) North Dakota.

(G) Oklahoma.

(H) Nevada.

(I) Alaska.

(J) Any other State in which there is land available for oil and gas leasing
under the Mineral Leasing Act or any other mineral leasing law.

(2) REQUIREMENT.—In conducting a lease sale under paragraph (1) in a State
described in that paragraph, the Secretary of the Interior shall offer not
less than 50 percent of all parcels nominated that are available and eligible
pursuant to the requirements of the Mineral Leasing Act.

(3) REPLACEMENT SALES.—The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct a
replacement sale during the same fiscal year if—

(A) a lease sale under paragraph (1) is canceled, delayed, or deferred,
including for a lack of eligible parcels; or

(B) during a lease sale under paragraph (1) the percentage of acreage that
does not receive a bid is equal to or greater than 25 percent of the acreage
offered.

(c) Leasing of oil and gas.—Section 17 of the Mineral Leasing Act ([30 U.S.C.
226](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=226)) is
amended—

(1) by striking the section designation and all that follows through the end
of subsection (a) and inserting the following:

“SEC. 17.  Leasing of oil and gas.

“(a) Leasing.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 18 months after the date of receipt by the
Secretary of an expression of interest in leasing land that is subject to
disposition under this Act and is known or believed to contain oil or gas
deposits, the Secretary shall, subject to paragraph (2), offer such land for
oil and gas leasing if the Secretary determines that the land is open to oil
or gas leasing under a land use plan developed or revised under section 202 of
the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C.
1712](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1712)) and
such land use plan—

“(A) applies to the planning area in which the land is located; and

“(B) is in effect on the date on which the expression of interest was
submitted to the Secretary.

“(2) LAND USE PLANS TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—A lease issued by the Secretary
under this section—

“(A) shall include any terms and conditions of the land use plan that apply to
the area of the lease; and

“(B) shall not require any stipulations or mitigation requirements not
included in such land use plan.”;

(2) in subsection (p)—

(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting “conduct a complete review of the
application with all applicable agency staff required for the Secretary to
determine the application is complete and” after “drill, the Secretary shall”;
and

(B) by adding at the end the following:

“(4) TERM.—A permit to drill approved under this subsection shall be valid for
a single, nonrenewable 4-year period beginning on the date that the permit to
drill is approved.

“(5) EFFECT OF PENDING CIVIL ACTION ON PROCESSING APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS TO
DRILL.—Pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (2), notwithstanding the
existence of any pending civil actions affecting the application or a related
lease issued under this Act, the Secretary shall process an application for a
permit to drill or other authorizations or approvals under a lease issued
under this Act.”; and

(3) by striking subsection (q) and inserting the following:

“(q) Other requirements.—In utilizing the authorities provided by section 390
of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 with respect to an activity conducted
pursuant to this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall not consider whether
there are any extraordinary circumstances.”.

SEC. 80102.  Noncompetitive leasing.

(a) Noncompetitive leasing.—Section 17 of the Mineral Leasing Act ([30 U.S.C.
226](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=226)) is
further amended—

(1) in subsection (b)—

(A) in paragraph (1)(A)—

(i) in the first sentence, by striking “paragraph (2)” and inserting
“paragraph (2) or (3)”; and

(ii) by adding at the end “Lands for which no bids are received or for which
the highest bid is less than the national minimum acceptable bid shall be
offered promptly within 30 days for leasing under subsection (c) of this
section and shall remain available for leasing for a period of 2 years after
the competitive lease sale.”; and

(B) by adding at the end the following:

“(3) (A) If the United States held a vested future interest in a mineral
estate that, immediately prior to becoming a vested present interest, was
subject to a lease under which oil or gas was being produced, or had a well
capable of producing, in paying quantities at an annual average production
volume per well per day of either not more than 15 barrels per day of oil or
condensate, or not more than 60,000 cubic feet of gas, the holder of the lease
may elect to continue the lease as a noncompetitive lease under subsection
(c)(1).

“(B) An election under this paragraph is effective—

“(i) in the case of an interest which vested after January 1, 1990, and on or
before October 24, 1992, if the election is made before the date that is 1
year after October 24, 1992;

“(ii) in the case of an interest which vests within 1 year after October 24,
1992, if the election is made before the date that is 2 years after October
24, 1992; and

“(iii) in any case other than those described in clause (i) or (ii), if the
election is made prior to the interest becoming a vested present interest.”;

(2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:

“(c) Lands subject to leasing under subsection (b); first qualified
applicant.—

“(1) If the lands to be leased are not leased under subsection (b)(1) of this
section or are not subject to competitive leasing under subsection (b)(2) of
this section, the person first making application for the lease who is
qualified to hold a lease under this chapter shall be entitled to a lease of
such lands without competitive bidding, upon payment of a nonrefundable
application fee of at least $75. A lease under this subsection shall be
conditioned upon the payment of a royalty at a rate of 12.5 percent in amount
or value of the production removed or sold from the lease. Leases shall be
issued within 60 days of the date on which the Secretary identifies the first
responsible qualified applicant.

“(2) (A) Lands (i) which were posted for sale under subsection (b)(1) of this
section but for which no bids were received or for which the highest bid was
less than the national minimum acceptable bid and (ii) for which, at the end
of the period referred to in subsection (b)(1) of this section no lease has
been issued and no lease application is pending under paragraph (1) of this
subsection, shall again be available for leasing only in accordance with
subsection (b)(1) of this section.

“(B) The land in any lease which is issued under paragraph (1) of this
subsection or under subsection (b)(1) of this section which lease terminates,
expires, is cancelled or is relinquished shall again be available for leasing
only in accordance with subsection (b)(1) of this section.”; and

(3) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:

“(e) Primary term.—Competitive and noncompetitive leases issued under this
section shall be for a primary term of 10 years: _Provided_ , _however_ , That
competitive leases issued in special tar sand areas shall also be for a
primary term of 10 years. Each such lease shall continue so long after its
primary term as oil or gas is produced in paying quantities. Any lease issued
under this section for land on which, or for which under an approved
cooperative or unit plan of development or operation, actual drilling
operations were commenced prior to the end of its primary term and are being
diligently prosecuted at that time shall be extended for two years and so long
thereafter as oil or gas is produced in paying quantities.”.

(b) Failure to comply with provisions of lease.—Section 31 of the Mineral
Leasing Act ([30 U.S.C.
188](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=188)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (d)(1), by striking “section 17(b)” and inserting
“subsection (b) or (c) of section 17 of this Act”;

(2) in subsection (e)—

(A) in paragraph (2)—

(i) by inserting “either” after “rentals and”; and

(ii) by inserting “or the inclusion in a reinstated lease issued pursuant to
the provisions of section 17(c) of this Act of a requirement that future
rentals shall be at a rate not less than $5 per acre per year, all” before “as
determined by the Secretary”; and

(B) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:

“(3) (A) payment of back royalties and the inclusion in a reinstated lease
issued pursuant to the provisions of section 17(b) of this Act of a
requirement for future royalties at a rate of not less than 162⁄3 percent
computed on a sliding scale based upon the average production per well per
day, at a rate which shall be not less than 4 percentage points greater than
the competitive royalty schedule then in force and used for royalty
determination for competitive leases issued pursuant to such section as
determined by the Secretary: _Provided_ , That royalty on such reinstated
lease shall be paid on all production removed or sold from such lease
subsequent to the termination of the original lease;

“(B) payment of back royalties and inclusion in a reinstated lease issued
pursuant to the provisions of section 17(c) of this Act of a requirement for
future royalties at a rate not less than 162⁄3 percent: _Provided_ , That
royalty on such reinstated lease shall be paid on all production removed or
sold from such lease subsequent to the cancellation or termination of the
original lease; and”;

(3) in subsection (f)—

(A) in paragraph (1), by striking “in the same manner as the original lease
issued pursuant to section 17” and inserting “as a competitive or a
noncompetitive oil and gas lease in the same manner as the original lease
issued pursuant to subsection (b) or (c) of section 17 of this Act”;

(B) by adding at the end the following:

“(4) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the issuance of a lease in
lieu of an abandoned patented oil placer mining claim shall be treated as a
noncompetitive oil and gas lease issued pursuant to section 17(c) of this
Act.”;

(4) in subsection (g), by striking “subsection (d)” and inserting “subsections
(d) and (j)”;

(5) by amending subsection (h) to read as follows:

“(h) Royalty reductions.—

“(1) In acting on a petition to issue a noncompetitive oil and gas lease,
under subsection (j) of this section or in response to a request filed after
issuance of such a lease, or both, the Secretary is authorized to reduce the
royalty on such lease if in his judgment it is equitable to do so or the
circumstances warrant such relief due to uneconomic or other circumstances
which could cause undue hardship or premature termination of production.

“(2) In acting on a petition for reinstatement pursuant to subsection (d) of
this section or in response to a request filed after reinstatement, or both,
the Secretary is authorized to reduce the royalty in that reinstated lease on
the entire leasehold or any tract or portion thereof segregated for royalty
purposes if, in his judgment, there are uneconomic or other circumstances
which could cause undue hardship or premature termination of production; or
because of any written action of the United States, its agents or employees,
which preceded, and was a major consideration in, the lessee’s expenditure of
funds to develop the property under the lease after the rent had become due
and had not been paid; or if in the judgment of the Secretary it is equitable
to do so for any reason.”; and

(6) by adding at the end the following:

“(j) Issuance of noncompetitive oil and gas lease; conditions.—Where an
unpatented oil placer mining claim validly located prior to February 24, 1920,
which has been or is currently producing or is capable of producing oil or
gas, has been or is hereafter deemed conclusively abandoned for failure to
file timely the required instruments or copies of instruments required by
section 1744 of title 43, and it is shown to the satisfaction of the Secretary
that such failure was inadvertent, justifiable, or not due to lack of
reasonable diligence on the part of the owner, the Secretary may issue, for
the lands covered by the abandoned unpatented oil placer mining claim, a
noncompetitive oil and gas lease, consistent with the provisions of section
17(e) of this Act, to be effective from the statutory date the claim was
deemed conclusively abandoned. Issuance of such a lease shall be conditioned
upon—

“(1) a petition for issuance of a noncompetitive oil and gas lease, together
with the required rental and royalty, including back rental and royalty
accruing from the statutory date of abandonment of the oil placer mining
claim, being filed with the Secretary—

“(A) with respect to any claim deemed conclusively abandoned on or before
January 12, 1983, on or before the one hundred and twentieth day after January
12, 1983; or

“(B) with respect to any claim deemed conclusively abandoned after January 12,
1983, on or before the one hundred and twentieth day after final notification
by the Secretary or a court of competent jurisdiction of the determination of
the abandonment of the oil placer mining claim;

“(2) a valid lease not having been issued affecting any of the lands covered
by the abandoned oil placer mining claim prior to the filing of such petition:
_Provided_ , _however,_ That after the filing of a petition for issuance of a
lease under this subsection, the Secretary shall not issue any new lease
affecting any of the lands covered by such abandoned oil placer mining claim
for a reasonable period, as determined in accordance with regulations issued
by him;

“(3) a requirement in the lease for payment of rental, including back rentals
accruing from the statutory date of abandonment of the oil placer mining
claim, of not less than $5 per acre per year;

“(4) a requirement in the lease for payment of royalty on production removed
or sold from the oil placer mining claim, including all royalty on production
made subsequent to the statutory date the claim was deemed conclusively
abandoned, of not less than 12½ percent; and

“(5) compliance with the notice and reimbursement of costs provisions of
paragraph (4) of subsection (e) but addressed to the petition covering the
conversion of an abandoned unpatented oil placer mining claim to a
noncompetitive oil and gas lease.”.

SEC. 80103. Permit fees.

Section 17 of the Mineral Leasing Act ([30 U.S.C.
226](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=226)) is
further amended by adding at the end the following:

“(r) Fee for commingling of production.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Interior shall approve applications
allowing for the commingling of production from two or more sources (including
the area of an oil and gas lease, the area included in a drilling spacing
unit, a unit participating area, a communitized area, or non-Federal property)
before production reaches the point of royalty measurement regardless of
ownership, the royalty rates, and the number or percentage of acres for each
source if the applicant pays an application fee of $10,000 and agrees to
install measurement devices for each source, utilize an allocation method that
achieves volume measurement uncertainty levels within plus or minus 2 percent
during the production phase reported on a monthly basis, or utilize an
approved periodic well testing methodology. Production from multiple oil and
gas leases, drilling spacing units, communitized areas, or participating areas
from a single wellbore shall be considered a single source. Nothing in this
subsection shall prevent the Secretary of the Interior from continuing the
current practice of exercising discretion to authorize higher percentage
volume measurement uncertainty levels if appropriate technical and economic
justifications have been provided.

“(2) REVENUE ALLOCATION.—Fees received under this subsection shall be
deposited into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

“(s) Fees for permits-by-rule.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish, by regulation not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this subsection, a permit-by-rule process
under which a leaseholder may receive approval to drill for oil and gas if the
leaseholder certifies compliance with such regulations and pays a fee of
$5,000. Such permit-by-rule process shall allow drilling operations to
commence no later than 45 days after the leaseholder has filed a registration
that certifies compliance with such regulations and paid the fee required by
this paragraph.

“(2) REVENUE ALLOCATION.—Fees received under this subsection shall be
deposited into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.”.

SEC. 80104.  Permitting fee for non-Federal land.

(a) In general.—Notwithstanding section 17 of the Mineral Leasing Act ([30
U.S.C.
226](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=226)), but
subject to any applicable State requirements, the Secretary of the Interior
shall not require a permit to drill for an oil and gas lease under the Mineral
Leasing Act for an action occurring within an oil and gas drilling or spacing
unit if the leaseholder pays a fee of $5,000 and—

(1) the Federal Government—

(A) owns less than 50 percent of the minerals within the oil and gas drilling
or spacing unit; and

(B) does not own or lease the surface estate within the area directly impacted
by the action; or

(2) the well is located on non-Federal land overlying a non-Federal mineral
estate, but some portion of the wellbore traverses but does not produce from
the Federal mineral estate subject to the lease.

(b) Notification.—For each State permit to drill or drilling plan that would
impact or extract oil and gas owned by the Federal Government—

(1) each lessee of Federal minerals in the unit, or designee of a lessee,
shall—

(A) notify the Secretary of the Interior of the submission of a State
application for a permit to drill or drilling plan on submission of the
application;

(B) provide a copy of the application described in subparagraph (A) to the
Secretary of the Interior not later than 5 days after the date on which the
permit or plan is submitted; and

(C) pay to the Secretary of the Interior the $5,000 fee referenced in
subsection (a) of this section;

(2) each lessee, designee of a lessee, or applicable State shall notify the
Secretary of the Interior of the approved State permit to drill or drilling
plan not later than 45 days after the date on which the permit or plan is
approved; and

(3) each lessee or designee of a lessee shall provide, prior to commencing
drilling operations, agreements authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to
enter non-Federal land, as necessary, for inspection and enforcement of the
terms of the Federal lease.

(c) Effect.—Nothing in this section affects the amount of royalties due to the
Federal Government from the production of the Federal minerals within the oil
and gas drilling or spacing unit.

(d) Revenue allocation.—Fees received under this section shall be deposited
into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

(e) Authority on non-Federal land.—Section 17(g) of the Mineral Leasing Act
([30 U.S.C.
226(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=226)) is
amended—

(1) by striking the subsection designation and all that follows through
“Secretary of the Interior, or” in the first sentence and inserting the
following:

“(g) Regulation of surface disturbing activities.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Interior, or”; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

“(2) AUTHORITY ON NON-FEDERAL LAND.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of an oil and gas lease under this Act on land
described in subparagraph (B) located within an oil and gas drilling or
spacing unit, nothing in this Act authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to—

“(i) require a bond to protect non-Federal land;

“(ii) enter non-Federal land without the consent of the applicable landowner;

“(iii) impose mitigation requirements; or

“(iv) require approval for surface reclamation.

“(B) LAND.—Land referred to in subparagraph (A) is land where—

“(i) the Federal Government—

“(I) owns less than 50 percent of the minerals within the oil and gas drilling
or spacing unit; and

“(II) does not own or lease the surface estate within the area directly
impacted by the action;

“(ii) the well is located on non-Federal land overlying a non-Federal mineral
estate, but some portion of the wellbore enters and produces from the Federal
mineral estate subject to the lease; or

“(iii) the well is located on non-Federal land overlying a non-Federal mineral
estate, but some portion of the wellbore traverses but does not produce from
the Federal mineral estate subject to the lease.

“(C) NO FEDERAL ACTION.—An oil and gas exploration or production activity
carried out under a lease described in subparagraph (A)—

“(i) shall require no Federal action; and

“(ii) may commence 30 days after the leaseholder submits the State permit to
the Secretary.”.

SEC. 80105.  Reinstate reasonable royalty rates.

(a) Offshore oil and gas royalty rate.—Section 8(a)(1) of the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act ([43 U.S.C.
1337(a)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1337))
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking “not less than 162⁄3 percent, but not
more than 183⁄4 percent, during the 10-year period beginning on the date of
enactment of the Act titled  ‘An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to
title II of S. Con. Res. 14’, and not less than 162⁄3 percent thereafter,” and
inserting “not less than 12.5 percent, but not more than 183⁄4 percent,”;

(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking “not less than 162⁄3 percent, but not
more than 183⁄4 percent, during the 10-year period beginning on the date of
enactment of the Act titled  ‘An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to
title II of S. Con. Res. 14’, and not less than 162⁄3 percent thereafter,” and
inserting “not less than 12.5 percent, but not more than 183⁄4 percent,”;

(3) in subparagraph (F), by striking “not less than 162⁄3 percent, but not
more than 183⁄4 percent, during the 10-year period beginning on the date of
enactment of the Act titled  ‘An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to
title II of S. Con. Res. 14’, and not less than 162⁄3 percent thereafter,” and
inserting “not less than 12.5 percent, but not more than 183⁄4 percent,”; and

(4) in subparagraph (H), by striking “not less than 162⁄3 percent, but not
more than 183⁄4 percent, during the 10-year period beginning on the date of
enactment of the Act titled  ‘An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to
title II of S. Con. Res. 14’, and not less than 162⁄3 percent thereafter,” and
inserting “not less than 12.5 percent, but not more than 183⁄4 percent,”.

(b) Onshore oil and gas royalty rates.—Section 17 of the Mineral Leasing Act
([30 U.S.C.
226](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=226)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (b)—

(A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking “the Act titled  ‘An Act to provide for
reconciliation pursuant to title II of S. Con. Res. 14’, 162⁄3 ” and inserting
“subsection (s), 12.5”; and

(B) in paragraph (2)(A)(ii), by striking “162⁄3  percent” and inserting “162⁄3
percent or, in the case of a lease issued on or after the date of enactment of
subsection (s), 12.5 percent”;

(2) in subsection (l), by striking “162⁄3  percent” each place it appears and
inserting “162⁄3  percent or, in the case of a lease issued on or after the
date of enactment of subsection (s), 12.5 percent”; and

(3) in subsection (n)(1)(C), by striking “162⁄3  percent” and inserting “162⁄3
percent or, in the case of a lease issued on or after the date of enactment of
subsection (s), 12.5 percent”.

PART 2—Geothermal

SEC. 80111.  Geothermal leasing.

Section 4(b) of the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 ([30 U.S.C.
1003(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=1003))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (2), by striking “2 years” and inserting “year”; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

“(5) REPLACEMENT SALES.—If a lease sale under paragraph (2) for a year is
canceled or delayed, the Secretary of the Interior shall conduct a replacement
sale during the same year.

“(6) REQUIREMENT.—In conducting a lease sale under paragraph (2) in a State
described in that paragraph, the Secretary of the Interior shall offer all
nominated parcels eligible for geothermal development and utilization under a
land use plan developed or revised under section 202 of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 that is in effect for the State.”.

SEC. 80112.  Geothermal royalties.

Section 5(a)(1) of the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 ([30 U.S.C.
1004(a)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=1004))
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (A)—

(A) by inserting “with respect to each electric generating facility producing
electricity,” before “not less than”; and

(B) by inserting by “by such facility” after “produced”; and

(2) in subparagraph (B)—

(A) by inserting “with respect to each electric generating facility producing
electricity,” before “not less than”; and

(B) by inserting by “by such facility” after “produced”.

PART 3—Alaska

SEC. 80121.  Coastal plain oil and gas leasing.

(a) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) COASTAL PLAIN.—The term “Coastal Plain” has the meaning given the term in
section 20001(a) of [Public Law
115–97](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ97/pdf/PLAW-115publ97.pdf)
([16 U.S.C.
3143](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=3143)
note).

(2) OIL AND GAS PROGRAM.—The term “oil and gas program” means the oil and gas
program established under section 20001(b)(2) of [Public Law
115–97](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ97/pdf/PLAW-115publ97.pdf)
([16 U.S.C.
3143](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=3143)
note).

(3) SECRETARY.—The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

(b) Administration.—Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary shall—

(1) withdraw—

(A) the supplemental environmental impact statement described in the notice of
availability of the Bureau of Land Management entitled “Notice of Availability
of the Final Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Supplemental
Environmental Impact Statement, Alaska” (89 Fed. Reg. 88805 (November 8,
2024)); and

(B) the record of decision described in the notice of availability of the
Bureau of Land Management entitled “Notice of Availability of the Record of
Decision for the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement for the
Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program, Alaska” (89 Fed. Reg. 101042
(December 13, 2024)); and

(2) reinstate—

(A) the environmental impact statement described in the notice of availability
of the Bureau of Land Management entitled “Notice of Availability of the Final
Environmental Impact Statement for the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing
Program, Alaska” (84 Fed. Reg. 50472 (September 25, 2019)); and

(B) the record of decision described in the notice of availability of the
Bureau of Land Management entitled “Notice of Availability of the Record of
Decision for the Final Environmental Impact Statement for the Coastal Plain
Oil and Gas Leasing Program, Alaska” (85 Fed. Reg. 51754 (August 21, 2020)).

(c) Reissuance of cancelled leases.—

(1) ACCEPTANCE OF BIDS.—Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall, without modification or delay—

(A) accept the highest valid bid for each Coastal Plain lease tract for which
a valid bid was received on January 6, 2021, pursuant to the requirement to
hold the first lease sale under section 20001(c)(1)(A) of [Public Law
115–97](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ97/pdf/PLAW-115publ97.pdf)
([16 U.S.C.
3143](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=3143)
note); and

(B) provide the appropriate lease form to each successful bidder under
subparagraph (A) to execute and return to the Secretary.

(2) LEASE ISSUANCE.—On receipt of an executed lease form under paragraph
(1)(B) and payment in accordance with that lease of the rental for the first
year, the balance of the bonus bid (unless deferred), and any required bond or
security from the successful bidder, the Secretary shall promptly issue to the
successful bidder a fully executed lease, in accordance with—

(A) the applicable regulations, as in effect on January 6, 2021; and

(B) the terms and conditions of the record of decision described in subsection
(b)(2)(B).

(3) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—Leases reissued pursuant to this subsection shall
include the terms and conditions from the record of decision described in the
notice of availability of the Bureau of Land Management entitled “Notice of
Availability of the Record of Decision for the Final Environmental Impact
Statement for the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program, Alaska” (85 Fed.
Reg. 51754 (August 21, 2020)).

(4) EXCEPTION.—This subsection shall not apply to any bid for which a lease
was issued and subsequently relinquished by the successful bidder prior to the
date of enactment of this Act.

(d) Lease sales required.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), in addition to the lease sales
required under section 20001(c)(1)(A) of [Public Law
115–97](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ97/pdf/PLAW-115publ97.pdf)
([16 U.S.C.
3143](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=3143)
note), the Secretary shall conduct not fewer than 4 lease sales area-wide
under the oil and gas program by not later than 10 years after the date of the
enactment of this Act.

(2) SALE ACREAGES; SCHEDULE.—The Secretary shall offer—

(A) an initial lease sale under paragraph (1) not later than 1 year after the
date of the enactment of this Act;

(B) a second lease sale under paragraph (1) not later than 3 years after the
date of the enactment of this Act;

(C) a third lease sale under paragraph (1) not later than 5 years after the
date of the enactment of this Act;

(D) a fourth lease sale under paragraph (1) not later than 7 years after the
date of the enactment of this Act; and

(E) (i) not fewer than 400,000 acres area-wide in each lease sale, including
those areas that have the highest potential for the discovery of hydrocarbons;
or

(ii) the total number of unleased acres subject to the provisions of this
section if that total number of available acres is less than 400,000 acres.

(3) LEASING CERTAINTY.—The record of decision described in subsection
(b)(2)(B) shall be considered to satisfy the requirements of—

(A) the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act;

(B) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969;

(C) Public Law 115–97;

(D) the Endangered Species Act of 1973;

(E) subchapter II of [chapter
5](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title5-chapter5-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 5, United States Code,
and [chapter 7](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title5-chapter7-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 5, United States Code;
and

(F) the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972.

(e) Lease issuance.—Leases shall be reissued or issued under subsections (c)
and (d)—

(1) not later than 60 days after payment by the successful bidder of the
remainder of the bonus bid, if any, and the annual rental for the first lease
year;

(2) in accordance with the applicable regulations, as in effect on January 6,
2021; and

(3) in accordance with the terms and conditions from the record of decision
described in the notice of availability of the Bureau of Land Management
entitled “Notice of Availability of the Record of Decision for the Final
Environmental Impact Statement for the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing
Program, Alaska” (85 Fed. Reg. 51754 (August 21, 2020)).

(f) Geophysical surveys.—Not later than 30 days after the date on which the
Secretary receives a complete application pursuant to section 3152.1 of title
43, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulations), to conduct oil
and gas geophysical exploration operations in the Coastal Plain, the Secretary
shall approve such application.

(g) Receipts.—Notwithstanding section 35 of the Mineral Leasing Act ([30
U.S.C. 191](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=191))
and section 20001(b)(5) of [Public Law
115–97](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-115publ97/pdf/PLAW-115publ97.pdf)
([16 U.S.C.
668dd](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=668dd)
note), of the amount of adjusted bonus, rental, and royalty receipts derived
from the oil and gas program and operations on the Coastal Plain pursuant to
this section—

(1) (A) for fiscal years 2025 through 2034, 50 percent shall be paid to the
State of Alaska; and

(B) for fiscal year 2035 and thereafter, 90 percent shall be paid to the State
of Alaska; and

(2) the balance shall be deposited into the Treasury as miscellaneous
receipts.

(h) Judicial preclusion.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), no court shall have
jurisdiction to review any action taken by the Secretary, the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency, or a State or municipal government
administrative agency to—

(A) reissue a lease pursuant to subsection (c) or issue a lease under a lease
sale conducted under subsection (d); or

(B) grant or issue a right-of-way, easement, authorization, permit,
verification, biological opinion, incidental take statement, or other approval
for a lease reissued pursuant to subsection (c) or issued under a lease sale
conducted under subsection (d), whether reissued or issued prior to, on, or
after the date of the enactment of this Act, and including any lawsuit or any
other action pending in a court as of the date of enactment of this Act.

(2) PETITION BY LEASEHOLDER.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—A leaseholder or the State of Alaska may obtain a review of an
alleged failure by the Secretary to act in accordance with this section or
with any law pertaining to granting or issuing a lease, right-of-way,
easement, authorization, permit, verification, biological opinion, incidental
take statement, or other approval related to a lease under this section by
filing a written petition with a court of competent jurisdiction seeking an
order.

(B) DEADLINES.—If a court of competent jurisdiction finds pursuant to
subparagraph (A) that an agency has failed to act in accordance with this
section or with any law pertaining to granting or issuing a lease, right-of-
way, easement, authorization, permit, verification, biological opinion,
incidental take statement, or other approval related to a lease under this
section, the court shall set a schedule and deadline for the agency to act as
soon as practicable, which shall not exceed 90 days from the date on which the
order of the court is issued, unless the court determines a longer time period
is necessary to comply with applicable law.

PART 4—Coal

SEC. 80141.  Coal leasing.

(a) Mandatory leasing and other required approvals.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of enactment of this Act in the case of a pending application,
or not later than 90 days after the date of submission in the case of an
application submitted after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of the Interior shall—

(1) with respect to each qualified application—

(A) if not previously published for public comment, publish any required
environmental review;

(B) finalize the fair market value of the applicable coal tract;

(C) hold a lease sale with respect to the applicable coal tract;

(D) take all other intermediate actions necessary to grant the qualified
application; and

(E) after completing the actions required by subparagraphs (A) through (D),
grant the qualified application and issue the applicable lease to the person
that submitted the qualified application if that person submitted the highest
bid in the lease sale held under subparagraph (C); and

(2) with respect to previously issued coal leases, grant any additional
approvals of the Department of the Interior required for mining activities to
commence.

(b) Leases for Known Recoverable Coal Resources.—Notwithstanding section
2(a)(3)(A) of the Mineral Leasing Act ([30 U.S.C.
201(a)(3)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=201))
and section 202(a) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43
U.S.C.
1712(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1712)),
not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of the Interior shall make available for lease known recoverable coal
resources of not less than 4,000,000 additional acres on Federal land west of
the 100th meridian located in the 48 contiguous States and Alaska, but which
shall not include any Federal land within—

(1) a National Monument;

(2) a National Recreation Area;

(3) a component of the National Wilderness Preservation System;

(4) a component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System;

(5) a component of the National Trails System;

(6) a National Conservation Area;

(7) a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System;

(8) a unit of the National Fish Hatchery System;

(9) a unit of the National Park System;

(10) a National Preserve;

(11) a National Seashore or National Lakeshore;

(12) a National Historic Site;

(13) a National Memorial;

(14) a National Battlefield, National Battlefield Park, National Battlefield
Site, or National Military Park; or

(15) a National Historical Park.

(c) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) COAL LEASE.—The term “coal lease” means a lease entered into by the United
States as lessor, through the Bureau of Land Management, and an applicant on
Bureau of Land Management Form 3400–012, or a successor form that contains
terms of a coal lease.

(2) QUALIFIED APPLICATION.—The term “qualified application” means an
application for a coal lease pending as of the date of enactment of this Act
or submitted within 90 days thereafter under the lease by application program
administered by the Bureau of Land Management pursuant to the Mineral Leasing
Act.

SEC. 80142.  Future coal leasing.

Secretarial Order 3338, issued by the Secretary of the Interior on January 15,
2016, or any other actions limiting the Federal coal leasing program, shall
have no force or effect.

SEC. 80143.  Coal royalty.

(a) Rate.—Section 7(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act ([30 U.S.C.
207(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=207)) is
amended by striking “121⁄2  per centum” and inserting “121⁄2  percent, except
such amount shall be not more than 7 percent during the period that begins on
the date of enactment of subsection (s) of section 17 and ends September 30,
2034,”.

(b) Retroactivity.—The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to a coal
lease—

(1) issued under section 2 of the Mineral Leasing Act ([30 U.S.C.
201](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=201))
before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this subtitle; and

(2) that has not been terminated.

(c) Advance royalties.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—With respect to a lease issued under section 2 of the Mineral
Leasing Act ([30 U.S.C.
201](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=201)) for
which the lessee has paid advance royalties under section 7(b) of that Act
([30 U.S.C.
207(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=207)),
the Secretary of the Interior shall provide to the lessee a credit for the
difference between the amount paid by the lessee in advance royalties for the
lease before the date of the enactment of this subtitle and the amount the
lessee would have been required to pay if the amendment made by subsection (a)
had been made before the lessee paid advance royalties for the lease.

(2) REFUND OF EXCESS CREDITS.—If a credit owed to a lessee pursuant to this
subsection for prior payment of advance royalties is in excess of royalties
owed at the conclusion of the term of the lease, the Secretary shall reimburse
the lessee an amount equal to the credit less any royalties owed during that
term.

SEC. 80144.  Authorization to mine Federal minerals.

(a) In general.—All Federal coal reserves leased under Federal Coal Lease MTM
97988 located within the covered Federal land are authorized to be mined in
accordance with the Bull Mountains Mining Plan Modification.

(b) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) BULL MOUNTAINS MINING PLAN MODIFICATION.—The term “Bull Mountains Mining
Plan Modification” means the Mine No. 1, Amendment 3 mining plan modification
for Federal coal lease MTM 97988 described in the memorandum of the Department
of the Interior titled “Recommendation regarding the previously approved
mining plan modification for Federal Lease MTM–97988 at Signal Peak Energy,
LLC’s Bull Mountains Mine No.1, located in Musselshell and Yellowstone
Counties, Montana” (November 18, 2020).

(2) COVERED FEDERAL LAND.—The term “covered Federal land” means the following
land comprising approximately 800 acres:

(A) The NE 1⁄4  of sec. 8, T. 6 N., R. 27 E., Montana Principal Meridian.

(B) The SW 1⁄4  of sec. 10, T. 6 N., R. 27 E., Montana Principal Meridian.

(C) The W ½, SE 1⁄4  of sec. 22, T. 6 N., R. 27 E., Montana Principal
Meridian.

PART 5—NEPA

SEC. 80151.  Project sponsor opt-in fees for environmental reviews.

The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 is amended by inserting after
section 111 ([42 U.S.C.
4336e](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=4336e))
the following:

“SEC. 112.  Project sponsor opt-in fees for environmental reviews.

“(a) Process.—

“(1) PROJECT SPONSOR.—A project sponsor who intends to pay a fee under this
section for the preparation, or supervision of the preparation, of an
environmental assessment or environmental impact statement with respect to the
project of the project sponsor shall submit to the Council—

“(A) a description of the project; and

“(B) a declaration of whether the project sponsor intends to prepare the
environmental assessment or environmental impact statement under section
107(f) of this title.

“(2) NOTICE OF AMOUNT OF FEE.—Not later than 15 days after the receipt of the
information described in paragraph (1), the Council shall provide to the
project sponsor that submitted such information notice of the amount of the
fee, as determined under subsection (b).

“(3) PAYMENT OF FEE.—A project sponsor may pay a fee under this section after
receipt of the notice described in paragraph (2).

“(4) DEADLINE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEWS FOR WHICH A FEE IS
PAID.—Notwithstanding section 107(g)(1)—

“(A) an environmental assessment for which a fee was paid under this section
shall be completed by not later than 6 months after the sooner of, as
applicable, the dates described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of section
107(g)(1)(B); and

“(B) an environmental impact statement for which a fee was paid under this
section shall be completed by not later than 1 year after the sooner of, as
applicable, the dates described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of section
107(g)(1)(A).

“(b) Fee amount.—The amount of a fee under this section shall be—

“(1) in the case of an environmental assessment or environmental impact
statement to be prepared by the lead agency, 125 percent of the anticipated
costs to prepare the environmental assessment or environmental impact
statement; and

“(2) in the case of an environmental assessment or environmental impact
statement to be prepared in whole or in part by a project sponsor under
section 107(f), 125 percent of the anticipated costs to supervise preparation
of, and (as applicable) prepare, the environmental assessment or environmental
impact statement.

“(c) Judicial review.—

“(1) EA; EIS.—There shall be no judicial review of an environmental assessment
or environmental impact statement for which a fee is paid under this section.

“(2) FONSI; ROD.—An action for judicial review of a finding of no significant
impact or record of decision that is associated with an environmental
assessment or environmental impact statement described in paragraph (1) may
not challenge the finding of no significant impact or record of decision based
on an alleged issue with the environmental assessment or environmental impact
statement.

“(d) Revenue allocation.—Fees received under this section shall be deposited
into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.”.

SEC. 80152.  Rescission relating to environmental and climate data collection.

The unobligated balance of any amounts made available under section 60401 of
[Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
is rescinded.

PART 6—Miscellaneous

SEC. 80161.  Protest fees.

Section 17 of the Mineral Leasing Act ([30 U.S.C.
226](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=226)) is
further amended by adding at the end the following:

“(t) Protest filing fee.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Before processing any protest under this Act, the Secretary
shall collect a filing fee in the amount described in paragraph (2) from the
protestor to recover the cost for processing documents filed for the protest.

“(2) AMOUNT.—The amount described in this paragraph is calculated as follows:

“(A) For each protest filed in a submission not exceeding 10 pages in length,
the base filing fee shall be $150.

“(B) For each protest filed in a submission exceeding 10 pages in length, in
addition to the base filing fee, an assessment of $5 per page in excess of 10
pages shall apply.

“(C) For each protest filed in a submission that includes more than one oil
and gas lease parcel, right-of-way, or application for permit to drill, an
additional assessment of $10 per additional lease parcel, right-of-way, or
application for permit to drill shall apply.

“(3) ADJUSTMENT.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—Beginning on January 1, 2026, and annually thereafter, the
Secretary shall adjust the filing fees established in this subsection to whole
dollar amounts to reflect changes in the Producer Price Index, as published by
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, for the previous 12 months.

“(B) PUBLICATION OF ADJUSTED FILING FEES.—At least 30 days before an
adjustment to a filing fee under this paragraph takes effect, the Secretary
shall publish notification of the adjustment in the Federal Register.

“(4) REVENUE ALLOCATION.—All revenues collected under this paragraph shall be
deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.”.

PART 7—Offshore oil and gas leasing

SEC. 80171.  Mandatory offshore oil and gas lease sales.

(a) In general.—

(1) GULF OF AMERICA.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the 2024–2029 National Outer Continental Shelf
Oil and Gas Leasing Program, the Secretary shall hold not fewer than 30 lease
sales in the Gulf of America during the 15-year period beginning on the date
of the enactment of this section.

(B) LOCATION REQUIREMENT.—For each lease sale held under this paragraph, the
Secretary may offer for lease only an area identified as the Proposed Final
Program Area in Figure S–1 of the 2017–2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and
Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program referenced in the notice of availability
published by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management titled “Notice of
Availability of the 2017–2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing
Proposed Final Program” (81 Fed. Reg. 84612; published November 23, 2016).

(C) ACREAGE REQUIREMENT.—For each lease sale held under this paragraph, the
Secretary shall offer for lease—

(i) not fewer than 80,000,000 acres; or

(ii) if there are fewer than 80,000,000 acres that are unleased, all such
unleased acres.

(D) TIMING REQUIREMENT.—Of the not fewer than 30 lease sales required under
this paragraph, the Secretary shall hold not fewer than 1 lease sale on or
before each of the following dates:

(i) December 15, 2025.

(ii) March 15, 2026.

(iii) August 15, 2026.

(iv) March 15, 2027.

(v) August 15, 2027.

(vi) March 15, 2028.

(vii) August 15, 2028.

(viii) March 15, 2029.

(ix) August 15, 2029.

(x) March 15, 2030.

(xi) August 15, 2030.

(xii) March 15, 2031.

(xiii) August 15, 2031.

(xiv) March 15, 2032.

(xv) August 15, 2032.

(xvi) March 15, 2033.

(xvii) August 15, 2033.

(xviii) March 15, 2034.

(xix) August 15, 2034.

(xx) March 15, 2035.

(xxi) August 15, 2035.

(xxii) March 15, 2036.

(xxiii) August 15, 2036.

(xxiv) March 15, 2037.

(xxv) August 15, 2037.

(xxvi) March 15, 2038.

(xxvii) August 15, 2038.

(xxviii) March 15, 2039.

(xxix) August 15, 2039.

(xxx) March 15, 2040.

(E) LEASE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—

(i) IN GENERAL.—For each lease sale held under this paragraph, the Secretary
shall, except as provided in clause (iii), offer the same lease form, lease
terms, economic conditions, and stipulations 4 through 10 as contained in the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management final notice of sale titled “Gulf of Mexico
Outer Continental Shelf Region-Wide Oil and Gas Lease Sale 254” (85 Fed. Reg.
8010; published February 12, 2020).

(ii) UPDATE.—The Secretary is authorized to update stipulations 1 through 3 of
the final notice of sale titled “Gulf of Mexico Outer Continental Shelf
Region-Wide Oil and Gas Lease Sale 254” (85 Fed. Reg. 8010; published February
12, 2020) to reflect current conditions for lease sales held under this
paragraph.

(iii) DEEPWATER TERM.—The primary term for a lease in water depths of 800
meters or deeper issued as a result of a sale held under this paragraph shall
be 10 years.

(2) COOK INLET PLANNING AREA.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the 2024–2029 National Outer Continental Shelf
Oil and Gas Leasing Program, the Secretary shall hold not fewer than 6 lease
sales in the Cook Inlet Planning Area during the 10-year period beginning on
the date of the enactment of this section.

(B) LOCATION REQUIREMENT.—For each lease sale held under this paragraph, the
Secretary may offer for lease only an area identified in Figure S–2 of the
2017–2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program
referenced in the notice of availability published by the Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management titled “Notice of Availability of the 2017–2022 Outer
Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program” (81 Fed. Reg.
84612; published November 23, 2016).

(C) ACREAGE REQUIREMENT.—For each lease sale held under this paragraph, the
Secretary shall offer for lease—

(i) not fewer than 1,000,000 acres; or

(ii) if there are fewer than 1,000,000 acres that are unleased, all such
unleased acres.

(D) TIMING REQUIREMENT.—Of the not fewer than 6 lease sales required under
this paragraph, the Secretary shall hold not fewer than 1 lease sale on or
before each of the following dates:

(i) March 15, 2026.

(ii) March 15, 2027.

(iii) August 15, 2028.

(iv) March 15, 2030.

(v) August 15, 2031.

(vi) March 15, 2032.

(E) LEASE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—For each lease sale held under this paragraph,
the Secretary shall offer the same lease form, lease terms, economic
conditions, and stipulations as contained in the final notice of sale titled
“Outer Continental Shelf Cook Inlet, Alaska, Oil and Gas Lease Sale 244” (82
Fed. Reg. 23163; published May 22, 2017).

(F) REVENUE SHARING.—Notwithstanding section 8(g) and 9 of the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act ([43 U.S.C.
1337(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1337)
and 1338), and beginning in fiscal year 2035, of the bonuses, rents,
royalties, and other revenues derived from leases issued pursuant to this
paragraph—

(i) 90 percent shall be paid to the State of Alaska; and

(ii) 10 percent shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

(b) Lease sales held under Proposed Final Program.—The lease sales held under
this section shall be in addition to the lease sales held under the Proposed
Final Program for the 2024–2029 National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas
Leasing Program referenced in the notice of availability published by the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management titled “Notice of Availability of the
2024–2029 National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final
Program and Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement” (88 Fed. Reg.
67798; published October 2, 2023).

(c) Other requirements.—During the period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this section and ending on the date that is 2 years after the
date on which the last lease sale required to be held under this section is
held, with respect to each lease sale held, lease issued, and any activity
that requires a Federal authorization and is associated with a lease issued
pursuant to this title, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, or section
50264 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
in the Gulf of America—

(1) adherence with the Biological Opinion shall satisfy the Secretary’s
obligations under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 and the Marine Mammal
Protection Act of 1972;

(2) the final programmatic environmental impact statement referenced in the
notice of availability titled “Final Programmatic Environmental Impact
Statement for the 2017–2022 Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Oil and Gas Leasing
Program” (81 Fed. Reg. 83870; published November 22, 2016), the Record of
Decision related to such final programmatic environmental impact statement,
and the final environmental impact statement referenced in the notice of
availability titled “Final Environmental Impact Statement for Outer
Continental Shelf, Gulf of Mexico, 2017–2022 Oil and Gas Lease Sales 249, 250,
251, 252, 253, 254, 256, 257, 259, and 261” (82 Fed. Reg. 13363; published
March 10, 2017) shall satisfy the Secretary’s obligations under the National
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and division A of subtitle III of title 54,
United States Code; and

(3) the consistency determinations prepared by the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management under section 307 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 ([16
U.S.C.
1456](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=1456)) for
Lease Sale 261 for the States of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and
Florida shall satisfy the Secretary’s obligations under that section ([16
U.S.C.
1456](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=1456)).

(d) Issuance of leases.—If the Secretary receives an acceptable bid for an
area offered in a lease sale held under this section, the Secretary shall—

(1) in accordance with section 8 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ([43
U.S.C.
1337](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1337)),
accept the highest acceptable bid for such area; and

(2) not later than 90 days after the date on which the applicable lease sale
ends, issue a lease of the area to the highest responsible qualified bidder.

(e) Nomination of areas for inclusion in lease sale by Governor.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish a process through which the
Governor of a State may nominate for leasing under a lease sale held under
this section an area of the outer Continental Shelf that is—

(A) adjacent to the waters of the State; and

(B) unleased and available for leasing.

(2) INCLUSION OF NOMINATED AREA.—If under paragraph (1) the Governor of a
State nominates an area described in that paragraph for leasing under a lease
sale held under this section, the Secretary shall include the area in the next
scheduled lease sale under subsection (a)(1)(D).

(f) Geological and geophysical surveys.—Not later than 30 days after the date
on which the Secretary receives a complete application pursuant to section
551.5 of title 30, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on September 22,
2015), to conduct a geological or geophysical survey pursuant to oil and gas
activities on the outer Continental Shelf, the Secretary shall approve such
application.

(g) Lease Sale 259 and Lease Sale 261 leases.—

(1) LEASING REVENUE CERTAINTY.—A lease awarded under Lease Sale 259 or Lease
Sale 261, which has been fully executed by the Secretary, shall not be set
aside, vacated, enjoined, suspended, or cancelled except in accordance with
section 5 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ([43 U.S.C.
1334](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1334)).

(2) NO ADDITIONAL TERMS OR CONDITIONS.—The Secretary shall not impose any
additional terms or conditions on a lease awarded under Lease Sale 259 or
Lease Sale 261, which has been fully executed by the Secretary, that were not
included in the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management final notice of sale titled
“Gulf of Mexico Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Lease Sale 259” (88 Fed.
Reg. 12404; published Feb. 27, 2023) or the final notice of sale titled “Gulf
of Mexico Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Lease Sale 261” (88 Fed. Reg.
80750; published on Nov. 20, 2023).

(h) Judicial review.—Section 23(c)(2) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act
([43 U.S.C.
1349(c)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1349))
is amended to read as follows:

“(2) Any action of the Secretary to approve, require modification of, or
disapprove any exploration plan, development and production plan, bidding
procedure, lease sale, lease issuance, or permit or authorization related to
oil and gas exploration, development, or production under this Act, or any
inaction by the Secretary resulting in the failure to hold a lease sale under
any Federal law requiring oil and gas lease sales on the outer Continental
Shelf, shall be subject to judicial review only in a United States court of
appeals for a circuit in which an affected State is located.”.

(i) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) ACCEPTABLE BID.—The term “acceptable bid” means a bid that meets the
requirements of the document published by the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management titled “Summary of Procedures for Determining Bid Adequacy at
Offshore Oil and Gas Lease Sales Effective March 2016, with Central Gulf of
Mexico Sale 241 and Eastern Gulf of Mexico Sale 226”.

(2) BIOLOGICAL OPINION.—The term “Biological Opinion”—

(A) means the biological opinion issued by the National Marine Fisheries
Service titled “Biological Opinion on the Federally Regulated Oil and Gas
Program Activities in the Gulf of Mexico” and the incidental take statement
associated with such biological opinion (published March 12, 2020, and updated
April 26, 2021); and

(B) does not include sections 3.3.1 through 3.3.3 of such biological opinion.

(3) LEASE.—The term “lease” means an oil and gas lease.

(4) LEASE SALE 259.—The term “Lease Sale 259” means the lease sale held by the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management on March 29, 2023.

(5) LEASE SALE 261.—The term “Lease Sale 261” means the lease sale held by the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management on December 20, 2023.

(6) OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF.—The term “outer Continental Shelf” has the
meaning given such term in section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act
([43 U.S.C.
1331](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1331)).

(7) SECRETARY.—The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

SEC. 80172.  Offshore commingling.

The Secretary of the Interior shall approve operator requests to commingle
production from multiple reservoirs within a single wellbore completed on the
Outer Continental Shelf of the Gulf of America unless conclusive evidence
establishes that such commingling—

(1) could not be conducted in a safe manner; or

(2) would result in the ultimate recovery from such formations being reduced.

SEC. 80173.  Limitations on amount of distributed qualified outer Continental
Shelf revenues.

Section 105(f)(1) of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 ([43
U.S.C.
1331](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1331) note)
is amended—

(1) in subparagraph (B), by striking “and” at the end;

(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking “2055.” and inserting “2024;”; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

“(D) $650,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2034; and

“(E) $500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2035 through 2055.”.

PART 8—Renewable energy

SEC. 80181. Renewable energy fees on Federal lands.

(a) Acreage rent for wind and solar rights-of-way.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Under the second sentence of section 504(g) of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C.
1764(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1764)),
the Secretary shall, subject to paragraph (3) and not later than January 1 of
each calendar year, collect from the holder of a right-of-way for a renewable
energy project an acreage rent in an amount based on the equation described in
paragraph (2).

(2) CALCULATION OF ACREAGE RENT RATE.—

(A) EQUATION.—The amount of an acreage rent collected under paragraph (1)
shall be determined using the following equation: Acreage rent = A × B × ((1 +
C)D)).

(B) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of subparagraph (A):

(i) The letter “A” means the Per-Acre Rate.

(ii) The letter “B” means the Encumbrance Factor.

(iii) The letter “C” means the Annual Adjustment Factor.

(iv) The letter “D” means the year in the term of the right-of-way.

(3) PAYMENT UNTIL PRODUCTION.—The holder of a right-of-way for a renewable
energy project shall pay an acreage rent collected under paragraph (1) until
the date on which energy generation begins.

(b) Capacity fees.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, subject to paragraph (2), annually
collect a capacity fee from the holder of a right-of-way for a renewable
energy project based on the amount described in paragraph (2).

(2) CALCULATION OF CAPACITY FEE.—The amount of a capacity fee collected under
paragraph (1) shall be equal to the greater of—

(A) an amount equal to the acreage rent described in subsection (a); and

(B) 4.58 percent of the gross proceeds from the sale of electricity produced
by the renewable energy project.

(3) MULTIPLE-USE REDUCTION FACTOR.—

(A) APPLICATION.—The holder of a right-of-way for a wind energy generation
project may request that the Secretary apply a 10-percent Multiple-Use
Reduction Factor to the amount of a capacity fee determined under paragraph
(2) by submitting to the Secretary an application for approval.

(B) APPROVAL.—The Secretary may approve an application submitted under
subparagraph (A) if not less than 25 percent of the land within the area of
the right-of-way is authorized for use, occupancy, or development with respect
to an activity other than the generation of wind energy for the entirety of
the year in which the capacity fee is collected.

(C) LATE DETERMINATION.—If the Secretary approves an application under
subparagraph (B) for a wind energy generation project after the date on which
the holder of the right-of-way for the project begins paying a capacity fee,
the Secretary shall apply the Multiple-Use Reduction Factor to the capacity
fee in the following years. Under this subparagraph, the Secretary may not
refund the holder of a right-of-way for the difference in the amount of a
capacity fee paid in a previous year.

(c) Late payment fee; termination.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may charge the holder of a right-of-way for a
renewable energy project a late payment fee if the Secretary does not receive
payment for the acreage rent under subsection (a) or the capacity fee under
subsection (b) by the date that is 15 days after the date on which the payment
was due.

(2) TERMINATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.—The Secretary may terminate a right-of-way
for a renewable energy project if the Secretary does not receive payment for
the acreage rent under subsection (a) or the capacity fee under subsection (b)
by the date that is 90 days after the date on which the payment was due.

(d) Revenue accuracy, transparency, and accountability.—The Secretary shall
document, verify, and make publicly available the respective amount of wind
and solar energy revenues collected under this section on the Department of
the Interior’s Natural Resources Revenue Data website.

(e) Ensuring fee certainty.—Section 3103 of the Energy Act of 2020 ([43 U.S.C.
3003](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=3003)) is
repealed.

(f) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT FACTOR.—The term “Annual Adjustment Factor” means 3
percent.

(2) ENCUMBRANCE FACTOR.—The term “Encumbrance Factor” means—

(A) 100 percent for solar energy generation facilities; and

(B) an amount determined by the Secretary not less than 10 percent for wind
energy generation facilities.

(3) PER-ACRE RATE.—The term “Per-Acre Rate” means the average of per-acre
pastureland rental rates published in the Cash Rents Survey by the National
Agricultural Statistics Service for the State in which the right-of-way is
located over the 5 calendar-year period preceding the issuance or renewal of
the right-of-way.

(4) PROJECT.—The term “project” means a system described in section
2801.9(a)(4) of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations (as such section is in
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act).

(5) PUBLIC LANDS.—The term “public lands” means—

(A) public lands as such term is defined in section 103 of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C.
1702](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1702)); and

(B) the lands of the National Forest System as described in section 11(a) of
the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 ([16 U.S.C.
1609(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=1609)).

(6) RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECT.—The term “renewable energy project” means a
project located on public lands that uses wind or solar energy to generate
energy.

(7) RIGHT-OF-WAY.—The term “right-of-way” has the meaning given such term in
section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C.
1702](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1702)).

(8) SECRETARY.—The term “Secretary” means—

(A) the Secretary of the Interior with respect to land controlled or
administered by the Secretary of the Interior; or

(B) the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to the lands of the National
Forest System controlled or administered by the Secretary of Agriculture.

SEC. 80182.  Renewable energy revenue sharing.

(a) Disposition of revenue.—

(1) DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.—Beginning on January 1, 2026, the amounts
collected from a renewable energy project as bonus bids, rentals, fees, or
other payments under a right-of-way, permit, lease, or other authorization
shall be—

(A) deposited in the general fund of the Treasury; and

(B) without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation, allocated as
follows:

(i) 25 percent shall be paid from amounts in the general fund of the Treasury
to the State within the boundaries of which the revenue is derived.

(ii) 25 percent shall be paid from amounts in the general fund of the Treasury
to each county within the boundaries of which the revenue is derived, to be
allocated among each such county based on the percentage of land from which
the revenue is derived.

(2) PAYMENTS TO STATES AND COUNTIES.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—The amounts paid to States and counties under paragraph (1)
shall be used consistent with section 35 of the Mineral Leasing Act ([30
U.S.C.
191](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=191)).

(B) PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF TAXES.—A payment to a county under paragraph (1) shall
be in addition to a payment in lieu of taxes received by the county under
[chapter 69](http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-
title31-chapter69-front&num=0&edition=prelim) of title 31, United States Code.

(C) TIMING.—The amounts required to be paid under paragraph (1)(B) for an
applicable fiscal year shall be made available not later than the fiscal year
that immediately follows the fiscal year for which the amounts were collected.

(b) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) COVERED LAND.—The term “covered land” means land that is—

(A) public lands administered by the Secretary; and

(B) not excluded from the development of solar or wind energy under—

(i) a land use plan; or

(ii) other Federal law.

(2) PUBLIC LANDS.—The term “public lands” means—

(A) public lands as such term is defined in section 103 of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C.
1702](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1702)); and

(B) lands of the National Forest System as described in section 11(a) of the
Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 ([16 U.S.C.
1609(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=1609)).

(3) RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECT.—The term “renewable energy project” means a
system described in section 2801.9(a)(4) of title 43, Code of Federal
Regulations (as such section is in effect on the date of the enactment of this
Act), located on covered land that uses wind or solar energy to generate
energy.

(4) SECRETARY.—The term “Secretary” means—

(A) the Secretary of the Interior with respect to land controlled or
administered by the Secretary of the Interior; or

(B) the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to the lands of the National
Forest System controlled or administered by the Secretary of Agriculture.

subtitle B—Water, Wildlife, and Fisheries

SEC. 80201. Rescission of funds for investing in coastal communities and
climate resilience.

There is hereby rescinded the unobligated balance of funds made available by
section 40001 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf).

SEC. 80202. Rescission of funds for facilities of National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration and national marine sanctuaries.

There is hereby rescinded the unobligated balance of funds made available by
section 40002 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf).

SEC. 80203. Surface water storage enhancement.

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the
Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation, for
fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
$2,000,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2034, for
construction and associated activities that increase the capacity of existing
Bureau of Reclamation surface water storage facilities, in a manner as
determined by the Secretary: _Provided,_ That, for the purposes of section 203
of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 ([43 U.S.C.
390cc](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=390cc)) or
section 3404(a) of the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act
of 1992 (Public Law 102–575), a contract or agreement entered into pursuant to
this section shall not be treated as a new or amended contract. None of the
funds provided under this section shall be reimbursable or subject to matching
or cost-share requirements.

SEC. 80204.  Water conveyance enhancement.

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the
Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation, for
fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
$500,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2034, for construction
and associated activities that restore or increase the capacity of existing
Bureau of Reclamation conveyance facilities, in a manner as determined by the
Secretary. None of the funds provided under this section shall be reimbursable
or subject to matching or cost-share requirements.

subtitle C—Federal Lands

SEC. 80301.  Rescission of Forest Service Funds.

Paragraph (4) of section 23001(a) of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf)
is repealed and all unobligated balances of amounts made available under such
paragraph are hereby rescinded.

SEC. 80302.  Rescission of National Park Service and Bureau of Land Management
Funds.

There is hereby rescinded the unobligated balances of amounts made available
by section 50221 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf).

SEC. 80303.  Rescission of Bureau of Land Management and National Park Service
Funds.

There is hereby rescinded the unobligated balances of amounts made available
by section 50222 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf).

SEC. 80304.  Rescission of National Park Service Funds.

There is hereby rescinded the unobligated balances of amounts made available
by section 50223 of [Public Law
117–169](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-117publ169/pdf/PLAW-117publ169.pdf).

SEC. 80305.  Celebrating America’s 250th Anniversary.

In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the
Secretary of the Interior for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available through fiscal year
2028—

(1) $150,000,000 for events, celebrations, and activities related to the
observance and commemoration of the 250th anniversary of the founding of the
United States; and

(2) $40,000,000 to carry out Executive Order 13934 of July 3, 2020 (85 Fed.
Reg. 41165), Executive Order 13978 of January 18, 2021 (86 Fed. Reg. 6809),
and Executive Order 14189 of January 29, 2025 (90 Fed. Reg. 8849) to establish
and maintain a statuary park to be known as the National Garden of American
Heroes.

SEC. 80306.  Long-Term Contracts for the Forest Service.

(a) In general.—For each of fiscal years 2025 through 2034, the Chief of the
Forest Service (in this section referred to as the “Chief”) shall enter into
not less than one long-term contract or agreement with private persons or
other public or private entities under section 14(a) of the National Forest
Management Act ([16 U.S.C.
472a(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=472a))
with respect to covered National Forest System lands in each region of the
Forest Service that contains covered National Forest System lands.

(b) Terms.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), the Chief shall
enter into contracts or agreements under subsection (a) in accordance with
section 3903 of title 41, United States Code, and section 14 of the National
Forest Management Act ([16 U.S.C.
472a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=472a)).

(2) CONTRACT LENGTH.—The period of a contract or agreement under subsection
(a) shall be for at least 20 years, with options for extensions and renewals
as determined by the Chief.

(3) CANCELLATION CEILINGS.—A contract or agreement entered into under
subsection (a) shall include provisions for a cancellation ceiling consistent
with section 604(d) of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 ([16 U.S.C.
6591c(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=6591c)).

(c) Receipts.—Any monies derived from an agreement or contract under this
section by the Chief shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.

(d) Covered national forest system lands defined.—In this section, the term
“covered National Forest System lands” means the proclaimed National Forest
System lands reserved or withdrawn from the public domain of the United
States.

SEC. 80307.  Long-Term Contracts for the Bureau of Land Management.

(a) In general.—For each of fiscal years 2025 through 2034, the Director of
the Bureau of Land Management (in this section referred to as the “Director”)
shall enter into not less than one long-term contract or agreement with
private persons or other public or private entities under section 1 of the
Materials Act of 1947 ([30 U.S.C.
601](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=601)) with
respect to vegetative materials on covered public lands.

(b) Terms.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), the Director
shall enter into contracts or agreements under subsection (a) in accordance
with section 3903 of title 41, United States Code, and section 2(a) of the
Materials Act of 1947 ([30 U.S.C.
602(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=30&section=602)).

(2) CONTRACT LENGTH.—The period of a contract or agreement under subsection
(a) shall be for at least 20 years, with options for extensions and renewals
as determined by the Director.

(3) CANCELLATION CEILINGS.—A contract or agreement entered into under
subsection (a) shall include provisions for a cancellation ceiling consistent
with section 604(d) of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 ([16 U.S.C.
6591c(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=6591c)).

(c) Location.—In selecting locations to enter into long-term contracts or
agreements under subsection (a), the Director shall prioritize areas with no
existing wood processing infrastructure.

(d) Receipts.—Any monies derived from an agreement or contract under this
section by the Director shall be deposited in the general fund of the
Treasury.

(e) Covered public lands defined.—The term “covered public lands” has the
meaning given the term “public lands” in section 103 of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C.
1702](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1702)),
except that the term includes Coos Bay Wagon Road Grant lands and Oregon and
California Railroad Grant lands.

SEC. 80308.  Timber production for the Forest Service.

(a) In general.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this
title, the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest
Service or their designee, shall direct timber harvest on covered National
Forest System lands in amounts that—

(1) in total, equal or exceed the volume that is 25 percent higher than the
average of the total volume sold on such lands between fiscal years 2020
through 2024; and

(2) are in accordance with the applicable forest plan, including the allowable
sale quantity or probable sale quantity, as applicable, of timber applicable
to such lands on the date of enactment of this title.

(b) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) COVERED NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM LANDS.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term “covered
National Forest System lands” means the proclaimed National Forest System
lands reserved or withdrawn from the public domain of the United States.

(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term “covered National Forest System lands” does not
include lands—

(i) that are included in the National Wilderness Preservation System;

(ii) that are located within a national or State-specific inventoried roadless
area established by the Secretary of Agriculture through regulation, unless—

(I) the forest management activity to be carried out under such authority is
consistent with the forest plan applicable to the area; or

(II) the activity is allowed under the applicable roadless rule governing such
lands, including—

(aa) the Idaho roadless rule under subpart C of part 294 of title 36, Code of
Federal Regulations;

(bb) the Colorado roadless rule under subpart D of part 294 of title 36, Code
of Federal Regulations; or

(cc) any other roadless rule developed after the date of the enactment of this
section by the Secretary with respect to a specific State; or

(iii) on which timber harvesting for any purpose is prohibited by Federal
statute.

(2) FOREST PLAN.—The term “forest plan” means a land and resource management
plan prepared by the Forest Service for a unit of the National Forest System
pursuant to section 6 of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning
Act of 1974 ([16 U.S.C.
1604](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=16&section=1604)).

SEC. 80309.  Timber Production for the Bureau of Land Management.

(a) In general.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this
title, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the
Bureau of Land Management or their designee, shall direct timber harvest on
covered public lands in amounts that—

(1) in total, equal or exceed the volume that is 25 percent higher than the
average of the total volume sold on such lands between fiscal years 2020
through 2024; and

(2) are in accordance with the applicable forest plan.

(b) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) COVERED PUBLIC LANDS.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term “covered
public lands” has the meaning given the term “public lands” in section 103 of
the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C.
1702](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1702)),
except that the term includes Coos Bay Wagon Road Grant lands and Oregon and
California Railroad Grant lands.

(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term “covered public lands” does not include lands—

(i) that are included in the National Wilderness Preservation System; or

(ii) on which timber harvesting for any purpose is prohibited by Federal
statute.

(2) FOREST PLAN.—The term “forest plan” means a land use plan prepared by the
Bureau of Land Management for public lands pursuant to section 202 of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C.
1712](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=43&section=1712)).
