TITLE III—Committee on Education and Workforce

subtitle A—Student Eligibility

SEC. 30001. Student eligibility.

(a) In general.—Section 484(a)(5) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20
U.S.C.
1091(a)(5)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1091))
is amended to read as follows:

“(5) be—

“(A) a citizen or national of the United States;

“(B) an alien who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence under the
Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C. 1101 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1101));

“(C) an alien who—

“(i) is a citizen or national of the Republic of Cuba;

“(ii) is the beneficiary of an approved petition under section 203(a) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C.
1153(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1153));

“(iii) meets all eligibility requirements for an immigrant visa but for whom
such a visa is not immediately available;

“(iv) is not otherwise inadmissible under section 212(a) of such Act ([8
U.S.C.
1182(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1182));
and

“(v) is physically present in the United States pursuant to a grant of parole
in furtherance of the commitment of the United States to the minimum level of
annual legal migration of Cuban nationals to the United States specified in
the U.S.-Cuba Joint Communiqué on Migration, done at New York September 9,
1994, and reaffirmed in the Cuba-United States: Joint Statement on
Normalization of Migration, Building on the Agreement of September 9, 1994,
done at New York May 2, 1995; or

“(D) an individual who lawfully resides in the United States in accordance
with a Compact of Free Association referred to in section 402(b)(2)(G) of the
Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 ([8
U.S.C.
1612(b)(2)(G)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=8&section=1612));
and”.

(b) Effective date and application.—The amendment made by subsection (a) shall
take effect on July 1, 2025, and shall apply with respect to award year
2025–2026 and each subsequent award year, as determined under the Higher
Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1001 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1001)).

SEC. 30002.  Amount of need; cost of attendance; median cost of college.

(a) Amount of need.—Section 471 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20
U.S.C.
1087kk](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087kk))
is amended by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:

“(1) (A) for award year 2025–2026, the cost of attendance of such student; or

“(B) for award year 2026–2027, and each subsequent award year, the median cost
of college of the program of study of such student, minus”.

(b) Cost of attendance of a program of study.—

(1) DETERMINATION OF COST OF ATTENDANCE OF A PROGRAM OF STUDY.—

(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 472(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087ll(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087ll))
is amended—

(i) in paragraph (1), by striking “carrying the same academic workload” and
inserting “enrolled in the same program of study”;

(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking “same course of study” and inserting “same
program of study”; and

(iii) in paragraph (14), by striking “program” and inserting “program of
study”.

(B) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by subparagraph (A) shall take effect
on July 1, 2026, and shall apply with respect to award year 2026–2027 and each
subsequent award year, as determined under the Higher Education Act of 1965.

(2) DISCLOSURE.—Section 472(c) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087ll(c)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087ll))
is amended—

(A) by inserting “of each program of study at the institution” after “cost of
attendance”; and

(B) by striking “of the institution” and inserting “of such programs of study
at the institution”.

(c) Determination of median cost of college.—Part F of title IV of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087kk](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087kk))
is amended by inserting after section 472 (as so amended), the following:

“SEC. 472A.  Determination of median cost of college.

“(a) In general.—For the purpose of this title, the term ‘median cost of
college’, when used with respect to a program of study, offered by one or more
institutions of higher education for an award year, means the median of the
cost of attendance of the program of study (as determined under section 472)
across all institutions of higher education offering such a program of study
for the preceding award year.

“(b) Program of study defined.—In this section and section 472, and part D:

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘program of study’—

“(A) means an eligible program at an institution of higher education that is
classified by a combination of—

“(i) one or more CIP codes; and

“(ii) one credential level, determined by the credential awarded upon
completion of the program; and

“(B) does not include a program of study abroad.

“(2) CIP CODE.—The term ‘CIP code’ means the six-digit taxonomic
identification code assigned by an institution of higher education to a
specific program of study at the institution, determined by the institution of
higher education in accordance with the Classification of Instructional
Programs published by the National Center for Education Statistics.

“(3) CREDENTIAL LEVEL.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘credential level’ means the level of the degree or
other credential awarded by an institution of higher education to students who
complete a program of study of the institution. Each degree or other
credential awarded by an institution shall be categorized by the institution
as either undergraduate credential level or graduate credential level.

“(B) UNDERGRADUATE CREDENTIAL.—When used with respect to a credential or
credential level, the term ‘undergraduate credential’ includes credentials
such as an undergraduate certificate, an associate degree, a bachelor’s
degree, and a post-baccalaureate certificate (including the coursework
specified in paragraphs (3)(B) and (4)(B) of section 484(b)).

“(C) GRADUATE CREDENTIAL.—When used with respect to a credential or credential
level, the term ‘graduate credential’ includes credentials such as a master’s
degree, a doctoral degree, a professional degree, and a postgraduate
certificate.”.

(d) Exemption of certain assets.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 480(f)(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20
U.S.C.
1087vv(f)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087vv))
is amended—

(A) by striking “net value of the” and inserting the following: “net value of—

“(A) the”;

(B) by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and

(C) by adding at the end the following:

“(B) a family farm on which the family resides; or

“(C) a small business with not more than 100 full-time or full-time equivalent
employees (or any part of such a small business) that is owned and controlled
by the family.”.

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on
July 1, 2026, and shall apply with respect to award year 2026–2027 and each
subsequent award year, as determined under the Higher Education Act of 1965.

subtitle B—Loan Limits

SEC. 30011. Loan Limits.

(a) Terminations of and restrictions on loan authority.—

(1) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY TO MAKE SUBSIDIZED LOANS TO UNDERGRADUATE
STUDENTS.—Section 455(a)(3) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(a)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is amended by adding at the end the following:

“(C) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY TO MAKE SUBSIDIZED LOANS TO UNDERGRADUATE
STUDENTS.—Notwithstanding any provision of this part or part B, except as
provided in paragraph (4), for any period of instruction beginning on or after
July 1, 2026—

“(i) an undergraduate student shall not be eligible to receive a Federal
Direct Stafford loan under this part; and

“(ii) the maximum annual amount of Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford loans
such a student may borrow in any academic year (as defined in section
481(a)(2)) or its equivalent shall be the maximum annual amount for such
student determined under paragraph (5)).”.

(2) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY TO MAKE FEDERAL DIRECT PLUS LOANS TO ANY STUDENT
BORROWER.—Section 455(a)(3) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(a)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is further amended by adding at the end the following:

“(D) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY TO MAKE FEDERAL DIRECT PLUS LOANS TO ANY STUDENT
BORROWER.—Notwithstanding any provision of this part or part B, except as
provided in paragraph (4), for any period of instruction beginning on or after
July 1, 2026, a graduate student or professional student shall not be eligible
to receive a Federal Direct PLUS Loan under this part.”.

(3) RESTRICTION ON AUTHORITY TO MAKE FEDERAL DIRECT PLUS LOANS TO ANY PARENT
BORROWER.—Section 455(a)(3) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(a)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is further amended by adding at the end the following:

“(E) RESTRICTION ON AUTHORITY TO MAKE FEDERAL DIRECT PLUS LOANS TO ANY PARENT
BORROWER.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any provision of this part or part B, except
as provided in clause (ii) and paragraph (4), for any period of instruction
beginning on or after July 1, 2026, a parent, on behalf of a dependent
student, shall not be eligible to receive a Federal Direct PLUS Loan under
this part.

“(ii) EXCEPTION.—A parent may receive a Federal Direct PLUS Loan under this
part, on behalf of a dependent student, in any academic year (as defined in
section 481(a)(2)) or its equivalent if—

“(I) such student borrows the maximum annual amount of Federal Direct
Unsubsidized Stafford loans such student may borrow in such academic year; and

“(II) such maximum annual amount is less than the cost of attendance of the
program of study of such student.”.

(4) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 455(a)(3) of the Higher Education Act of
1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(a)(3)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is further amended—

(A) in the paragraph heading, by striking “Termination of authority to make
interest subsidized loans to graduate and professional students” and inserting
“Terminations of and restrictions on loan authority”;

(B) in subparagraph (A)—

(i) in the heading, by striking “In general” and inserting “Termination of
authority to make subsidized loans to graduate and professional students”;

(ii) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking “beginning on or after
July 1, 2012”;

(iii) in clause (i), by striking “a graduate” and inserting “beginning on or
after July 1, 2012, a graduate”; and

(iv) in clause (ii), by striking “the maximum annual amount of Federal” and
inserting “beginning on or after July 1, 2012, and ending June 30, 2026, the
maximum annual amount of Federal”; and

(C) in subparagraph (B)—

(i) in the heading, by striking “Exception” and inserting “Exception for
subsidized loans to individuals enrolled in certain course work”.

(ii) by striking “Subparagraph (A)” and inserting “For any period of
instruction beginning on or after July 1, 2012, and ending June 30, 2026,
subparagraph (A)”.

(b) Interim rules for enrolled borrowers.—Section 455(a) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is amended by adding at the end the following:

“(4) INTERIM EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN STUDENTS.—

“(A) APPLICATION OF PRIOR LIMITS.—Subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E) of paragraph
(3), and paragraphs (5) and (6), shall not apply, during the expected time to
credential described in subparagraph (B), with respect to an individual who,
as of June 30, 2026—

“(i) is enrolled in a program of study at an institution of higher education;
and

“(ii) has received a loan (or on whose behalf a loan was made) under this part
for such program of study.

“(B) EXPECTED TIME TO CREDENTIAL.—For purposes of this paragraph, the expected
time to credential of an individual shall be equal to the lesser of—

“(i) three academic years; or

“(ii) the period determined by calculating the difference between—

“(I) the program length (as defined in section 420W) for the program of study
in which the individual is enrolled; and

“(II) the period of such program of study that such individual has completed
as of the date of the determination under this subparagraph.”.

(c) Loan limits for unsubsidized loans and certain Federal Direct PLUS Loans.—

(1) ANNUAL AND AGGREGATE UNSUBSIDIZED LOAN LIMITS.—Section 455(a) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is further amended by adding at the end the following:

“(5) ANNUAL AND AGGREGATE UNSUBSIDIZED LOAN LIMITS.—

“(A) UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS.—

“(i) ANNUAL LOAN LIMITS.—Notwithstanding any provision of this part or part B,
subject to subparagraph (C) and except as provided in paragraph (4), beginning
on July 1, 2026, the maximum annual amount of Federal Direct Unsubsidized
Stafford loans that an undergraduate student may borrow in any academic year
(as defined in section 481(a)(2)) or its equivalent shall be the difference
between—

“(I) the amount of the median cost of college of the program of study in which
the student is enrolled; and

“(II) the amount of __the Federal Pell Grant under section 401 awarded to the
student for such academic year.

“(ii) AGGREGATE LIMITS.—Notwithstanding any provision of this part or part B,
except as provided in paragraph (4), beginning on July 1, 2026, the maximum
aggregate amount of Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford loans that a student
may borrow for programs of study that award an undergraduate credential upon
completion of such a program shall be $50,000.

“(B) GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL STUDENTS.—

“(i) ANNUAL LIMITS.—Notwithstanding any provision of this part or part B,
subject to subparagraph (C) and except as provided in paragraph (4), beginning
on July 1, 2026, the maximum annual amount of Federal Direct Unsubsidized
Stafford loans that a graduate student or professional student may borrow in
any academic year (as defined in section 481(a)(2)) or its equivalent shall be
the amount of the median cost of college of the program of study in which the
student is enrolled.

“(ii) AGGREGATE LIMITS.—Notwithstanding any provision of this part or part B,
except as provided in paragraph (4), beginning on July 1, 2026, the maximum
aggregate amount of Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford loans that, in
addition to the maximum aggregate amount described in subparagraph (A)(ii)—

“(I) a graduate student—

“(aa) who is not (and has not been) a professional student, may borrow for
programs of study described in subparagraph (D)(i) shall be $100,000; or

“(bb) who is (or has been) a professional student, may borrow for programs of
study described in subparagraph (D)(i) shall be an amount equal to—

“(AA) $150,000, minus

“(BB) the amount such student borrowed for programs of study described in
subclauses (I) and (II) of subparagraph (D)(ii); and

“(II) a professional student—

“(aa) who is not (and has not been) a graduate student, may borrow for
programs of study described in subclauses (I) and (II) of subparagraph (D)(ii)
shall be $150,000; or

“(bb) who is (or has been) a graduate student, may borrow for programs of
study described in subclauses (I) and (II) of subparagraph (D)(ii) shall be an
amount equal to—

“(AA) $150,000, minus

“(BB) the amount such student borrowed for programs of study described in
subparagraph (D)(i).

“(C) LESS THAN FULL-TIME ENROLLMENT.—In any case where a student is enrolled
in an program of study of an institution of higher education on less than a
full-time basis during any academic year, the amount of a loan that student
may borrow for an academic year (as defined in section 481(a)(2)) or its
equivalent shall be reduced in direct proportion to the degree to which that
student is not so enrolled on a full-time basis, rounded to the nearest whole
percentage point, as provided in a schedule of reductions published by the
Secretary computed for purposes of this paragraph.

“(D) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this subsection:

“(i) GRADUATE STUDENT.—The term ‘graduate student’ means a student enrolled in
a program of study that awards a graduate credential (other than a
professional degree) upon completion of the program.

“(ii) PROFESSIONAL STUDENT.—The term ‘professional student’ means a student
enrolled in a program of study that—

“(I) awards a professional degree upon completion of the program; or

“(II) provides the training described in part 141 of title 14, Code of Federal
Regulations (or any successor regulations).

“(iii) UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT.—The term ‘undergraduate student’ means a student
enrolled in a program of study that awards an undergraduate credential upon
completion of the program.”.

(2) ANNUAL AND AGGREGATE FEDERAL DIRECT PLUS LOANS LIMITS FOR PARENT
BORROWERS.—Section 455(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is further amended by adding at the end the following:

“(6) ANNUAL AND AGGREGATE FEDERAL DIRECT PLUS LOANS LIMITS FOR PARENT
BORROWERS.—

“(A) ANNUAL LIMITS.—Notwithstanding any provision of this part or part B,
subject to paragraph (3)(E) and except as provided in paragraph (4), beginning
on July 1, 2026, the maximum annual amount of Federal Direct PLUS loans that a
parent may borrow, on behalf of a dependent student, in any academic year (as
defined in section 481(a)(2)) or its equivalent shall be the amount equal to—

“(i) the cost of attendance of the program of study of such student; minus

“(ii) the maximum annual amount of Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford loans
such student may borrow in such academic year.

“(B) LIFETIME MAXIMUM AGGREGATE LIMITS.—Notwithstanding any provision of this
part or part B, subject to paragraph (3)(E) and except as provided in
paragraph (4), beginning on July 1, 2026, the maximum aggregate amount of
Federal Direct PLUS loans that a parent may borrow on behalf of dependent
students shall be $50,000, without regard to—

“(i) the number of dependent students on behalf of whom such parent borrows
such a loan; or

“(ii) any amounts repaid, forgiven, canceled, or otherwise discharged on any
such loan.”.

(3) LIFETIME MAXIMUM AGGREGATE AMOUNT FOR ALL STUDENTS.—Section 455(a) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is further amended by adding at the end the following:

“(7) LIFETIME MAXIMUM AGGREGATE AMOUNT FOR ALL STUDENTS.—Notwithstanding any
provision of this part or part B, except as provided in paragraph (4),
beginning on July 1, 2026, the maximum aggregate amount of loans made,
insured, or guaranteed under this title that a student may borrow (other than
a Federal Direct PLUS loan, or loan under section 428B, made to the student as
a parent borrower on behalf of a dependent student) shall be $200,000, without
regard to any amounts repaid, forgiven, canceled, or otherwise discharged on
any such loan.”.

(4) INSTITUTIONALLY DETERMINED LIMITS.—Section 455(a) of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(a)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is further amended by adding at the end the following:

“(8) INSTITUTIONALLY DETERMINED LIMITS.—Notwithstanding the annual loan limits
described in subparagraphs (A)(i) and (B)(i) of paragraph (5) and subparagraph
(A) of paragraph (6), beginning on July 1, 2026, an institution of higher
education (at the discretion of a financial aid administrator at the
institution) may limit the total amount of loans made under this part for a
program of study for an academic year (as defined in section 481(a)(2)) that a
student may borrow, and that a parent may borrow on behalf of such student, as
long as any such limit is applied consistently to all students enrolled in
such program of study.”.

subtitle C—Loan Repayment

SEC. 30021.  Loan repayment.

(a) Transition to income-based repayment plans.—

(1) AUTHORITY TO TRANSITION TO INCOME-BASED REPAYMENT PLANS.—

(A) AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT TRANSITION.—Beginning on the date of enactment of
this title, the Secretary of Education shall take such steps as may be
necessary to apply the repayment plan under section 493C of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (as amended by this title) to the loans of each borrower
who, on the day before such date of enactment, is in a repayment status in
accordance with, or an administrative forbearance associated with, an income-
contingent repayment plan authorized under section 455(e) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of
this title).

(B) DEADLINE FOR TRANSITION.—The Secretary shall complete the application of
the repayment plan under section 493C to the loans described in paragraph (1)
as soon as practicable, but not later than 9 months after the date of
enactment of this title.

(2) LIMITATION OF REGULATORY AUTHORITY.—The Secretary may not establish,
promulgate, issue, or modify any regulations or guidance with respect to any
income-based repayment plan under the Higher Education Act of 1965, except
that the Secretary may—

(A) during the 270-day period after the date of enactment of this title, issue
an interim final rule as necessary for the application of the repayment plan
under section 493C of such Act of 1965 in accordance with paragraph (1);

(B) during the 270-day period after the date of enactment of this title, issue
an interim final rule as necessary to implement the amendments to such section
493C made by subsection (f) of this title; and

(C) during the 18-month period after the date of enactment of this title,
issue an interim final rule as necessary to implement the income-based
Repayment Assistance Program under section 455(q) of such Act of 1965 (as
added by this title).

(3) WAIVER OF NEGOTIATED RULEMAKING.—Any guidance or regulations issued or
modified in accordance with subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2) shall not
be subject to negotiated rulemaking requirements under section 492 of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1098a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1098a)).

(b) Repayment plans.—Section 455(d) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20
U.S.C.
1087e(d)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is amended—

(1) in paragraph (1)—

(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting “before July 1,
2026, who has not received a loan made under this part on or after July 1,
2026,” after “made under this part”;

(B) by amending subparagraph (D) to read as follows:

“(D) beginning on July 1, 2026, the income-based Repayment Assistance Plan
under subsection (q), provided that—

“(i) the borrower is required to pay each outstanding loan of the borrower
made under this part under such Repayment Assistance Plan;

“(ii) such Plan shall not be available to borrowers with an excepted loan (as
defined in paragraph (7)); and

“(iii) the borrower may not change the borrower’s selection of the Repayment
Assistance Plan except in accordance with paragraph (7)(C).”; and

(C) in subparagraph (E)—

(i) by striking “that enables borrowers who have a partial financial hardship
to make a lower monthly payment”; and

(ii) by striking “a Federal Direct Consolidation Loan, if the proceeds of such
loan were used to discharge the liability on such Federal Direct PLUS Loan or
a loan under section 428B made on behalf of a dependent student” and inserting
“an excepted Consolidation Loan (as defined in section 493C(a)(2))”;

(2) in paragraph (5), by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows:

“(B) repay the loan pursuant to an income-based repayment plan under
subsection (q) or section 493C, as applicable.”; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

“(6) TERMINATION AND LIMITATION OF REPAYMENT AUTHORITY.—

“(A) SUNSET OF REPAYMENT PLANS AVAILABLE BEFORE JULY 1, 2026.—Paragraphs (1)
through (4) of this subsection shall only apply to loans made under this part
before July 1, 2026.

“(B) PROHIBITIONS.—The Secretary may not, for any loan made under this part on
or after July 1, 2026—

“(i) authorize a borrower of such a loan to repay such loan pursuant to a
repayment plan that is not described in paragraph (7)(A); or

“(ii) carry out or modify a repayment plan that is not described in such
paragraph.

“(7) REPAYMENT PLANS FOR LOANS MADE ON OR AFTER JULY 1, 2026.—

“(A) DESIGN AND SELECTION.—Beginning on July 1, 2026, the Secretary shall
offer a borrower of a loan made under this part on or after such date
(including such a borrower who also has a loan made under this part before
such date) two plans for repayment of the borrower’s loans under this part,
including principal and interest on such loans. The borrower shall be entitled
to accelerate, without penalty, repayment on such loans. The borrower may
choose—

“(i) a standard repayment plan—

“(I) with a fixed monthly repayment amount paid over a fixed period of time
equal to the applicable period determined under subclause (II); and

“(II) with the applicable period of time for repayment determined based on the
total outstanding principal of all loans of the borrower made under this part
before, on, or after July 1, 2026, at the time the borrower is entering
repayment under such plan, as follows—

“(aa) for a borrower with total outstanding principal of less than $25,000, a
period of 10 years;

“(bb) for a borrower with total outstanding principal of not less than $25,000
and less than $50,000, a period of 15 years;

“(cc) for a borrower with total outstanding principal of not less than $50,000
and less than $100,000, a period of 20 years; and

“(dd) for a borrower with total outstanding principal of $100,000 or more, a
period of 25 years; or

“(ii) the income-based Repayment Assistance Plan under subsection (q).

“(B) SELECTION BY SECRETARY.—If a borrower of a loan made under this part on
or after July 1, 2026, does not select a repayment plan described in
subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall provide the borrower with the standard
repayment plan described in subparagraph (A)(i).

“(C) SELECTION AVAILABLE FOR EACH NEW LOAN; SELECTION APPLIES TO ALL
OUTSTANDING LOANS.—Each time a borrower receives a loan made under this part
on or after July 1, 2026, the borrower may select either the standard
repayment plan under subparagraph (A)(i) or the Repayment Assistance Plan
under subparagraph (A)(ii), provided that the borrower is required to pay each
outstanding loan of the borrower made under this part under such selected
repayment plan.

“(D) PERMISSIBLE CHANGES OF REPAYMENT PLAN.—

“(i) CHANGING FROM STANDARD REPAYMENT PLAN.—A borrower may change the
borrower’s selection of the standard repayment plan under subparagraph (A)(i),
or the Secretary’s selection of such plan for the borrower under subparagraph
(C), as the case may be, to the Repayment Assistance Plan under subparagraph
(A)(ii) at any time.

“(ii) LIMITED CHANGE FROM REPAYMENT ASSISTANCE PLAN.—A borrower may not change
the borrower’s selection of the Repayment Assistance Plan under subparagraph
(A)(ii), except in accordance with subparagraph (C).

“(E) SPECIAL RULE FOR EXCEPTED LOAN BORROWERS WITH LOANS MADE ON OR AFTER JULY
1, 2026.—

“(i) STANDARD REPAYMENT PLAN REQUIRED.—Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A)
through (D), beginning on July 1, 2026, the Secretary shall require a borrower
who has an excepted loan and who has received a loan made under this part on
or after such date to repay each outstanding loan of the borrower made under
this part, including principal and interest on such loans, under the standard
repayment plan under subparagraph (A)(i). The borrower shall be entitled to
accelerate, without penalty, repayment on such loans.

“(ii) EXCEPTED LOAN DEFINED.—For the purposes of this paragraph, the term
‘excepted loan’ means a loan with an outstanding balance that is—

“(I) a Federal Direct PLUS Loan that is made on behalf of a dependent student;
or

“(II) a Federal Direct Consolidation Loan, if the proceeds of such loan were
used to the discharge the liability on—

“(aa) an excepted PLUS loan, as defined in section 493C(a)(1); or

“(bb) an excepted consolidation loan (as such term is defined in section
493C(a)(2)(A), notwithstanding subparagraph (B) of such section).

“(F) TREATMENT OF BORROWERS WITHOUT LOANS MADE ON OR AFTER JULY 1, 2026.—A
borrower who has an outstanding loan (including an excepted loan) made under
this part before July 1, 2026, and who has not received a loan made under this
part on or after July 1, 2026, shall not be eligible to change the borrower’s
selection of a repayment plan to the standard repayment plan under
subparagraph (A)(i).”.

(c) Elimination of authority to provide income contingent repayment plans.—

(1) REPEAL.—Subsection (e) of section 455 the Higher Education Act of 1965
([20 U.S.C.
1087e(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is repealed.

(2) FURTHER AMENDMENTS TO ELIMINATE INCOME CONTINGENT REPAYMENT.—

(A) Section 428 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1078](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1078)) is
amended—

(i) in subsection (b)(1)(D), by striking “be subject to income contingent
repayment in accordance with subsection (m)” and inserting “be subject to
income-based repayment in accordance with subsection (m)”; and

(ii) in subsection (m)—

(I) in the subsection heading, by striking “Income Contingent and”;

(II) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:

“(1) AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY TO REQUIRE.—The Secretary may require borrowers
who have defaulted on loans made under this part that are assigned to the
Secretary under subsection (c)(8) to repay those loans pursuant to an income-
based repayment plan under section 455(q) or section 493C, as applicable.”;
and

(III) in the heading of paragraph (2), by striking “income contingent or”.

(B) Section 428C of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1078–3](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1078-3))
is amended—

(i) in subsection (a)(3)(B)(i)(V)(aa), by striking “for the purposes of
obtaining income contingent repayment or income-based repayment” and inserting
“for the purposes of qualifying for an income-based repayment plan under
section 455(q) or section 493C, as applicable”;

(ii) in subsection (b)(5), by striking “be repaid either pursuant to income
contingent repayment under part D of this title, pursuant to income-based
repayment under section 493C, or pursuant to any other repayment provision
under this section” and inserting “be repaid pursuant to an income-based
repayment plan under section 493C or any other repayment provision under this
section”; and

(iii) in subsection (c)—

(I) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking “or by the terms of repayment pursuant to
income contingent repayment offered by the Secretary under subsection (b)(5)”
and inserting “or by the terms of repayment pursuant to an income-based
repayment plan under section 493C”; and

(II) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking “except as required by the terms of
repayment pursuant to income contingent repayment offered by the Secretary
under subsection (b)(5)” and inserting “except as required by the terms of
repayment pursuant to an income-based repayment plan under section 493C”.

(C) Section 485(d)(1) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1092(d)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1092))
is amended by striking “income-contingent and”.

(D) Section 494(a)(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1098h(a)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1098h))
is amended—

(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking “Income-contingent and income-based”
and inserting “Income-based”;

(ii) in subparagraph (A)—

(I) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking “income-contingent or”;
and

(II) in clause (ii)(I), by inserting “(as in effect on the day before the date
of repeal of subsection (e) of section 455)” after “section 455(e)(8)”.

(d) Repayment Assistance Plan.—Section 455 of the Higher Education Act of 1965
([20 U.S.C.
1087e](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e)) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(q) Repayment Assistance Plan.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, beginning on
July 1, 2026, the Secretary shall carry out an income-based repayment plan (to
be known as the ‘Repayment Assistance Plan’), that shall have the following
terms and conditions:

“(A) The total monthly repayment amount owed by a borrower for all of the
loans of the borrower that are repaid pursuant to the Repayment Assistance
Plan shall be equal to the applicable monthly payment of a borrower calculated
under paragraph (3)(B), except that the borrower may not be precluded from
repaying an amount that exceeds such amount for any month.

“(B) The Secretary shall apply the borrower’s applicable monthly payment under
this paragraph first toward interest due on each such loan, next toward any
fees due on each loan, and then toward the principal of each loan.

“(C) Any principal due and not paid under subparagraph (B) or paragraph (2)(B)
shall be deferred.

“(D) A borrower who is not in a period of deferment or forbearance shall make
an applicable monthly payment for each month until the earlier of—

“(i) the date on which the outstanding balance of principal and interest due
on all of the loans of the borrower that are repaid pursuant to the Repayment
Assistance Plan is $0; or

“(ii) the date on which the borrower has made 360 qualifying monthly payments.

“(E) The Secretary shall repay or cancel any outstanding balance of principal
and interest due on a loan made under this part to a borrower—

“(i) who, for any period of time, participated in the Repayment Assistance
Plan under this subsection;

“(ii) whose most recent payment for such loan prior to the loan cancellation
under this subparagraph was made under such Repayment Assistance Plan; and

“(iii) who has made 360 qualifying monthly payments on such loan.

“(F) For the purposes of this subsection, the term ‘qualifying monthly
payment’ means any of the following:

“(i) An on-time applicable monthly payment under this subsection.

“(ii) An on-time monthly payment under the standard repayment plan under
subsection (d)(7)(A)(i) of not less than the monthly payment required under
such plan.

“(iii) A monthly payment under any repayment plan of not less than the monthly
payment that would be required under a standard repayment plan under section
455(d)(1)(A) with a repayment period of 10 years.

“(iv) A monthly payment under section 493C of not less than the monthly
payment required under such section, including a monthly payment equal to the
minimum payment amount permitted under such section.

“(v) A monthly payment made before the date of enactment of this subsection
under an income-contingent repayment plan carried out under section
455(d)(1)(D) (or under an alternative repayment plan in lieu of repayment
under such an income-contingent repayment plan, if placed in such an
alternative repayment plan by the Secretary) of not less than the monthly
payment required under such a plan, including a monthly payment equal to the
minimum payment amount permitted under such a plan.

“(vi) A month when the borrower did not make a payment because the borrower
was in deferment due to an economic hardship described in section 435(o).

“(vii) A month that ended before the date of enactment of this subsection when
the borrower did not make a payment because the borrower was in a period
deferment or forbearance described in section 685.209(k)(4)(iv) of title 34,
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of this
subsection).

“(G) With respect to carrying out section 494(a)(2) for the Repayment
Assistance Plan, an individual may elect to opt out of the disclosures
required under section 494(a)(2)(A)(ii) in accordance with the procedures
established under section 493C(c)(2)(B).

“(2) BALANCE ASSISTANCE FOR DISTRESSED BORROWERS.—

“(A) INTEREST SUBSIDY.—With respect to a borrower of a loan made under this
part, for each month for which such a borrower makes an on-time applicable
monthly payment required under paragraph (1)(A) and such monthly payment is
insufficient to pay the total amount of interest that accrues for the month on
all loans of the borrower repaid pursuant to the Repayment Assistance Plan
under this subsection, the amount of interest accrued and not paid for the
month shall not be charged to the borrower.

“(B) MATCHING PRINCIPAL PAYMENT.—With respect to a borrower of a loan made
under this part and not in a period of deferment or forbearance, for each
month for which a borrower makes an on-time applicable monthly payment
required under paragraph (1)(A) and such monthly payment reduces the total
outstanding principal balance of all loans of the borrower repaid pursuant to
the Repayment Assistance Plan under this subsection by less than $50, the
Secretary shall reduce such total outstanding principal balance of the
borrower by an amount that is equal to—

“(i) the amount that is the lesser of—

“(I) $50; or

“(II) the total amount paid by the borrower for such month pursuant to
paragraph (1)(A), minus

“(ii) the total amount paid by the borrower for such month pursuant to
paragraph (1)(A) that is applied to such total outstanding principal balance.

“(3) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:

“(A) ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—The term ‘adjusted gross income’, when used with
respect to a borrower, means the adjusted gross income (as such term is
defined in [section
62](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=62) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986) of the borrower (and the borrower’s spouse, as
applicable) for the most recent taxable year, except that, in the case of a
married borrower who files a separate Federal income tax return, the term does
not include the adjusted gross income of the borrower’s spouse.

“(B) APPLICABLE MONTHLY PAYMENT.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (ii), (iii), or (vi), the term
‘applicable monthly payment’ means, when used with respect to a borrower, the
amount equal to—

“(I) the applicable base payment of the borrower, divided by 12; minus

“(II) $50 for each dependent child of the borrower.

“(ii) MINIMUM AMOUNT.—In the case of a borrower with an applicable monthly
payment amount calculated under clause (i) that is less than $10, the
applicable monthly payment of the borrower shall be $10.

“(iii) FINAL PAYMENT.—In the case of a borrower whose total outstanding
balance of principal and interest on all of the loans of the borrower that are
repaid pursuant to the Repayment Assistance Plan is less than the applicable
monthly payment calculated pursuant to clause (i) or (ii), as applicable, then
the applicable monthly payment of the borrower shall be the total outstanding
balance of principal and interest on all such loans.

“(iv) BASE PAYMENT.—The amount of the applicable base payment for a borrower
with an adjusted gross income of—

“(I) not more than $10,000, is $120;

“(II) more than $10,000 and not more than $20,000, is 1 percent of such
adjusted gross income;

“(III) more than $20,000 and not more than $30,000, is 2 percent of such
adjusted gross income;

“(IV) more than $30,000 and not more than $40,000, is 3 percent of such
adjusted gross income;

“(V) more than $40,000 and not more than $50,000, is 4 percent of such
adjusted gross income;

“(VI) more than $50,000 and not more than $60,000, is 5 percent of such
adjusted gross income;

“(VII) more than $60,000 and not more than $70,000, is 6 percent of such
adjusted gross income;

“(VIII) more than $70,000 and not more than $80,000, is 7 percent of such
adjusted gross income;

“(IX) more than $80,000 and not more than $90,000, is 8 percent of such
adjusted gross income;

“(X) more than $90,000 and not more than $100,000, is 9 percent of such
adjusted gross income; and

“(XI) more than $100,000, is 10 percent of such adjusted gross income.

“(v) DEPENDENT CHILD OF THE BORROWER.—For the purposes of this paragraph, the
term ‘dependent child of the borrower’ means an individual who—

“(I) is under 17 years of age; and

“(II) is the borrower’s dependent child or another person who lives with and
receives more than one-half of their support from the borrower.

“(vi) SPECIAL RULE.—In the case of a borrower who is required by the Secretary
to provide information to the Secretary to determine the applicable monthly
payment of the borrower under this subparagraph, and who does not comply with
such requirement, the applicable monthly payment of the borrower shall be—

“(I) the sum of the monthly payment amounts the borrower would have paid for
each of the borrower’s loans made under this part under a standard repayment
plan with a fixed monthly repayment amount, paid over a period of 10 years,
based on the outstanding principal due on such loan when such loan entered
repayment; and

“(II) determined pursuant to this clause until the date on which the borrower
provides such information to the Secretary.”.

(e) Federal Consolidation Loans.—Section 455(g) of the Higher Education Act of
1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(g)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

“(3) CONSOLIDATION LOANS MADE ON OR AFTER JULY 1, 2026.—Notwithstanding
subsections (b)(5), (c)(2), and (c)(3)(A) and (B) of section 428C, a Federal
Direct Consolidation Loan offered to a borrower under this part on or after
July 1, 2026, may only be repaid pursuant to a repayment plan described in
subsection (d)(7)(A)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable, and the
repayment schedule of such a Consolidation Loan shall be determined in
accordance with such repayment plan.”.

(f) Income-based repayment.—

(1) AMENDMENTS.—

(A) EXCEPTED CONSOLIDATION LOAN DEFINED.—Section 493C(a)(2) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1098e(a)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1098e))
is amended to read as follows:

“(2) EXCEPTED CONSOLIDATION LOAN.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘excepted consolidation loan’ means—

“(i) a consolidation loan under section 428C, or a Federal Direct
Consolidation Loan, if the proceeds of such loan were used to the discharge
the liability on an excepted PLUS loan; or

“(ii) a consolidation loan under section 428C, or a Federal Direct
Consolidation Loan, if the proceeds of such loan were used to discharge the
liability on a consolidation loan under section 428C or a Federal Direct
Consolidation Loan described in clause (i).

“(B) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘excepted consolidation loan’ does not include a
Federal Direct Consolidation Loan described in subparagraph (A) that (on the
day before the date of enactment of this subparagraph) was being repaid
pursuant to the Income-Contingent Repayment (ICR) plan in accordance with
section 685.209(a) of title 34, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on
June 30, 2023).”.

(B) TERMS OF INCOME-BASED REPAYMENT.—Section 493C(b) of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1098e(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1098e))
is amended—

(i) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:

“(1) a borrower of any loan made, insured, or guaranteed under part B or D
(other than an excepted PLUS loan or excepted consolidation loan), may elect
to have the borrower’s aggregate monthly payment for all such loans not exceed
the result described in subsection (a)(3)(B) divided by 12;”;

(ii) in paragraph (3)—

(I) in subparagraph (B)—

(aa) in clause (i)—

(AA) by striking subclause (II); and

(BB) by striking “the borrower” and all the follows through “ends” and
inserting “the borrower ends”; and

(bb) in clause (ii)—

(AA) by striking subclause (II);

(BB) by striking “the borrower” and all the follows through “ends” and
inserting “the borrower ends”; and

(CC) by striking “or” at the end;

(iii) by repealing paragraph (6);

(iv) in paragraph (7)(B)—

(I) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking “for a period of time
prescribed by the Secretary, not to exceed 25 years” and inserting the
following: “for 25 years (in the case of a borrower who is repaying at least
one loan for a program of study for which a graduate credential (as defined in
section 472A)) is awarded, or, for 20 years (in the case of a borrower who is
not repaying at least one such loan)”;

(II) in clause (i), by inserting “(as such paragraph was in effect on the day
before the date of the repeal of paragraph (6))” after “paragraph (6)”; and

(III) in clause (iv), by inserting “(as such section was in effect on the day
before the date of the repeal of paragraph (6))” after “section 455(d)(1)(D)”;
and

(v) in paragraph (8), by striking “standard repayment plan” and inserting
“standard repayment plan under section 428(b)(9)(A)(i) or 455(d)(1)(A), or the
Repayment Assistance Program under section 455(q)”.

(C) ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS.—Section 493C(c)(2) of the Higher Education Act
of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1098e(c)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1098e))
is further amended—

(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting “(as in effect on the day before the
date of repeal of subsection (e) of section 455)” after “section 455(e)(1)”;
and

(ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting “(as in effect on the day before the
date of repeal of subsection (e) of section 455)” after “section 455(e)(8)”.

(D) TERMINATION OF SPECIAL TERMS FOR NEW BORROWERS ON AND AFTER JULY 1,
2014.—Section 493C of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1098e(e)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1098e))
is further amended by striking subsection (e).

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPLICATION.—The amendments made by this subsection
shall take effect on the date of enactment of this title, and shall apply with
respect to any borrower who is in repayment before, on, or after the date of
enactment of this title.

SEC. 30022. Deferment; forbearance.

(a) Heading amendment.—Section 455(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20
U.S.C.
1087e(f)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is amended by striking the subsection heading and inserting the following:
“Deferment; forbearance”.

(b) Sunset of economic hardship and unemployment deferments.—Section 455(f) of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.1087e(f)) is amended—

(1) in paragraph (2)—

(A) in subparagraph (B), by striking “not in” and inserting “subject to
paragraph (7), not in” ; and

(B) in subparagraph (D), by striking “not in” and inserting “subject to
paragraph (7), not in”; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

“(7) SUNSET OF UNEMPLOYMENT AND ECONOMIC HARDSHIP DEFERMENTS.—A borrower who
receives a loan made under this part on or after July 1, 2025, shall not be
eligible to defer such loan under subparagraph (B) or (D) of paragraph (2).”.

(c) Forbearance on loans made under this part on or after July 1,
2025.—Section 455(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(f)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is amended by adding at the end the following:

“(8) FORBEARANCE ON LOANS MADE UNDER THIS PART ON OR AFTER JULY 1, 2025.—A
borrower who receives a loan made under this part on or after July 1, 2025—

“(A) may only be eligible for a forbearance on such loan pursuant to section
428(c)(3)(B) that does not exceed 9 months during any 24-month period; and

“(B) in the case of a borrower who is serving in a medical or dental
internship or residency program (as such program is described in section
428(c)(3)(A)(i)(I)), may be eligible for a forbearance on such loan pursuant
to 428(c)(3)(A)(i)(I), during which—

“(i) for the first 4 12-month intervals, interest shall not accrue; and

“(ii) for any subsequent 12-month interval, interest shall accrue.”.

SEC. 30023.  Loan rehabilitation.

(a) Updating loan rehabilitation limits.—

(1) FFEL AND DIRECT LOANS.—Section 428F(a)(5) of the Higher Education Act of
1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1078–6(a)(5)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1078-6))
is amended by striking “one time” and inserting “two times”.

(2) PERKINS LOANS.—Section 464(h)(1)(D) of the Higher Education Act of 1965
([20 U.S.C.
1087dd(h)(1)(D)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087dd))
is amended by striking “once” and inserting “twice”.

(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this subsection shall take effect
on the date of enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to any loan
made, insured, or guaranteed under title IV of the Higher Education Act of
1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1070 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1070)).

(b) Minimum monthly payment amount.—Section 428F(a)(1)(B) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1078–6(a)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1078-6))
is amended by adding at the end the following: “With respect a loan made under
part D on or after July 1, 2025, a monthly payment amount described in
subparagraph (A) may not be less than $10.”.

SEC. 30024. Public Service Loan Forgiveness.

(a) Repayment Assistance Plan.—Section 455(m)(1)(A) of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(m)(1)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is amended—

(1) in clause (iii), by striking “; or” and inserting a semicolon;

(2) in clause (iv), by striking “; and” and inserting “(as in effect on the
day before the date of the repeal of subsection (e) of this section); or”; and

(3) by adding at the end the following new clause:

“(v) on-time payments under the Repayment Assistance Plan under section
455(q); and”.

(b) Public service job.—Section 455(m)(3)(B) of the Higher Education Act of
1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087e(m)(3)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087e))
is amended—

(1) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as subclauses (I) and (II),
respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly;

(2) by striking “The term” and inserting the following:

“(i) IN GENERAL.—The term”; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

“(ii) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘public service job’ does not include time served in
a medical or dental internship or residency program (as such program is
described in section 428(c)(3)(A)(i)(I)) by an individual who, as of June 30,
2025, has not borrowed a Federal Direct PLUS Loan or a Federal Direct
Unsubsidized Stafford Loan for a program of study that awards a graduate
credential upon completion of such program.”.

SEC. 30025. Student loan servicing.

Paragraph (1) of section 458(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20
U.S.C.
1087h(a)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087h))
is amended to read as follows:

“(1) ADDITIONAL MANDATORY FUNDS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2025 AND 2026.—For each of
the fiscal years 2025 and 2026 there shall be available to the Secretary (in
addition to any other amounts appropriated under any appropriations Act for
administrative costs under this part and part B and out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated) funds to be obligated for administrative
costs under this part and part B, including the costs of the direct student
loan programs under this part, not to exceed $500,000,000 in each such fiscal
year.”.

subtitle D—Pell Grants

SEC. 30031.  Eligibility.

(a) Foreign income and Federal Pell Grant eligibility.—

(1) ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME DEFINED.—Section 401(a)(2)(A) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1070a(a)(2)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1070a))
is amended to read as follows:

“(A) the term ‘adjusted gross income’ means—

“(i) in the case of a dependent student, for the second tax year preceding the
academic year—

“(I) the adjusted gross income (as defined in [section
62](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=62) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986) of the student’s parents; plus

“(II) the foreign income (as described in section 480(b)(5)) of the student’s
parents; and

“(ii) in the case of an independent student, for the second tax year preceding
the academic year—

“(I) the adjusted gross income (as defined in [section
62](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=26&section=62) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986) of the student (and the student’s spouse, if
applicable); plus

“(II) the foreign income (as described in section 480(b)(5)) of the student
(and the student’s spouse, if applicable);”.

(2) SUNSET.—Section 401(b)(1)(D) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20
U.S.C.
1070a(b)(1)(D)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1070a))
is amended by striking “A student” and inserting “For each academic year
beginning before July 1, 2026, a student”.

(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 479A(b)(1)(B) of the Higher Education Act of
1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087tt(b)(1)(B)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087tt))
is amended—

(A) by striking clause (v); and

(B) by redesignating clauses (vi) and (vii) as clauses (v) and (vi),
respectively.

(b) Definition of full time enrollment for Federal Pell Grant
eligibility.—Section 401(a)(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1070a(a)(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1070a))
is further amended—

(1) in subparagraph (E), by striking “and” after the semicolon;

(2) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period and inserting “; and”; and

(3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

“(G) notwithstanding section 481(a)(2)(A)(iii), the terms ‘full time’ and
‘full-time’ (except with respect to subsection (d)(4) when used as part of the
term ‘normal full-time workload’) mean, with respect to a student enrolled in
an undergraduate course of study, the student is expected to complete at least
30 semester or trimester hours or 45 quarter credit hours (or the clock hour
equivalent) in each award year a student is enrolled in the course of study.”.

(c) Federal Pell Grant ineligibility due to a high student aid index.—Section
401(b)(1) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1070a–1(b)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1070a-1))
is amended by adding at the end the following:

“(F) INELIGIBILITY OF STUDENTS WITH A HIGH STUDENT AID INDEX.—Notwithstanding
subparagraphs (A) through (E), a student shall not be eligible for a Federal
Pell Grant under this subsection for an academic year in which the student has
a student aid index that equals or exceeds twice the amount of the total
maximum Federal Pell Grant for such academic year.”.

(d) No Federal Pell grant eligibility for students enrolled less than half
time.—Section 401 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1070a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1070a)) is
further amended—

(1) in subsection (b)—

(A) by striking “(2) Less” and inserting “(2)(A) Less”; and

(B) by inserting after subparagraph (A) (as so designated by subparagraph (A)
of this subsection) the following new subparagraph:

“(B) LESS THAN HALF-TIME ENROLLMENT.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), a
student who first receives a Federal Pell Grant on or after July 1, 2026,
shall not be eligible for an award under this subsection for any award year
beginning after such date in which the student is enrolled in an eligible
program of an institution of higher education on less than a half-time basis.
The Secretary shall update the schedule of reductions described in
subparagraph (A) in accordance with this subparagraph, including for students
receiving the minimum Federal Pell Grant.”;

(2) in subsection (c)(6)(A), by inserting “, and the eligibility requirement
of enrollment on at least a half-time basis under subsection (b)(2),” after
“(b)(1)”; and

(3) in subsection (d)(5)(A), by inserting “(and at least half time, in the
case of a student who first receives a Federal Pell Grant under subsection (b)
on or after July 1, 2026)” after “full time”.

(e) Effective date and application.—The amendments made by this section shall
take effect on July 1, 2026, and shall apply with respect to award year
2026–2027 and each subsequent award year.

SEC. 30032.  Workforce pell grants.

(a) In general.—Section 401 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1070a](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1070a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:—

“(k) Workforce pell grant program.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—For the award year beginning on July 1, 2026, and each
subsequent award year, the Secretary shall award grants (to be known as
‘Workforce Pell Grants’) to eligible students under paragraph (2) in
accordance with this subsection.

“(2) ELIGIBLE STUDENTS.—To be eligible to receive a Workforce Pell Grant under
this subsection for any period of enrollment, a student shall meet the
eligibility requirements for a Federal Pell Grant under this section, except
that the student—

“(A) shall be enrolled, or accepted for enrollment, in an eligible program
under section 481(b)(3) (hereinafter referred to as an ‘eligible workforce
program’); and

“(B) may not—

“(i) be enrolled, or accepted for enrollment, in a program of study that leads
to a graduate credential; or

“(ii) have attained such a credential.

“(3) TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF AWARDS.—The Secretary shall award Workforce Pell
Grants under this subsection in the same manner and with the same terms and
conditions as the Secretary awards Federal Pell Grants under this section,
except that—

“(A) each use of the term ‘eligible program’ (except in subsections (b)(9)(A)
and (d)(2)) shall be substituted by ‘eligible workforce program under section
481(b)(3)’; and

“(B) a student who is eligible for a grant equal to less than the amount of
the minimum Federal Pell Grant because the eligible workforce program in which
the student is enrolled or accepted for enrollment is less than an academic
year (in hours of instruction or weeks of duration) may still be eligible for
a Workforce Pell Grant in an amount that is prorated based on the length of
the program.

“(4) PREVENTION OF DOUBLE BENEFITS.—No eligible student described in paragraph
(2) may concurrently receive a grant under both this subsection and—

“(A) subsection (b); or

“(B) subsection (c).

“(5) DURATION LIMIT.—Any period of study covered by a Workforce Pell Grant
awarded under this subsection shall be included in determining a student’s
duration limit under subsection (d)(5).”.

(b) Program eligibility for workforce pell grants.—Section 481(b) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1088(b)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1088))
is amended—

(1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (4) and (5),
respectively; and

(2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:

“(3) (A) A program is an eligible program for purposes of the Workforce Pell
Grant program under section 401(k) only if—

“(i) it is a program of at least 150 clock hours of instruction, but less than
600 clock hours of instruction, or an equivalent number of credit hours,
offered by an eligible institution during a minimum of 8 weeks, but less than
15 weeks;

“(ii) it is not offered as a correspondence course, as defined in 600.2 of
title 34, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on September 20, 2020);

“(iii) the Governor of a State, after consultation with the State board,
determines that the program—

“(I) provides an education aligned with the requirements of high-skill, high-
wage (as identified by the State pursuant to section 122 of the Carl D.
Perkins Career and Technical Education Act ([20 U.S.C.
2342](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=2342))), or
in-demand industry sectors or occupations;

“(II) meets the hiring requirements of potential employers in the sectors or
occupations described in subclause (I);

“(III) either—

“(aa) leads to a recognized postsecondary credential that is stackable and
portable across more than one employer; or

“(bb) with respect to students enrolled in the program—

“(AA) prepares such students for employment in an occupation for which there
is only one recognized postsecondary credential; and

“(BB) provides such students with such a credential upon completion of such
program; and

“(IV) prepares students to pursue 1 or more certificate or degree programs at
1 or more institutions of higher education (which may include the eligible
institution providing the program), including by ensuring—

“(aa) that a student, upon completion of the program and enrollment in such a
related certificate or degree program, will receive academic credit for the
Workforce Pell program that will be accepted toward meeting such certificate
or degree program requirements; and

“(bb) the acceptability of such credit toward meeting such certificate or
degree program requirements; and

“(iv) after the Governor of such State makes the determination that the
program meets the requirements under clause (iii), the Secretary determines
that—

“(I) the program has been offered by the eligible institution for not less
than 1 year prior to the date on which the Secretary makes a determination
under this clause;

“(II) for each award year, the program has a verified completion rate of at
least 70 percent, within 150 percent of the normal time for completion;

“(III) for each award year, the program has a verified job placement rate of
at least 70 percent, measured 180 days after completion; and

“(IV) for each award year, the median value-added earnings (as defined in
section 420W) of students who completed such program for the most recent year
for which data is available exceeds the median total price (as defined in
section 454(d)(3)(D)) charged to students in such award year.

“(B) In this paragraph:

“(i) The term ‘eligible institution’ means an institution of higher education
(as defined in section 102), or any other entity that has entered into a
program participation agreement with the Secretary under section 487(a)
(without regard to whether that entity is accredited by a national recognized
accrediting agency or association), which has not been subject, during any of
the preceding 3 years, to—

“(I) any suspension, emergency action, or termination under this title;

“(II) in the case of an institution of higher education, any adverse action by
the institution’s accrediting agency or association that revokes or denies
accreditation for the institution; or

“(III) any final action by the State in which the institution or other entity
holds its legal domicile, authorization, or accreditation that revokes the
institution’s or entity’s license or other authority to operate in such State.

“(ii) The term ‘Governor’ means the chief executive of a State.

“(iii) The terms ‘industry or sector partnership’, ‘in-demand industry sector
or occupation’, ‘recognized postsecondary credential’, and ‘State board’ have
the meanings given such terms in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and
Opportunity Act.”.

(c) Student eligibility.—Section 484(a)(1) of the Higher Education Act of 1965
([20 U.S.C.
1091(a)(1)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1091))
is amended by inserting “or, for purposes of section 401(k), at an entity
(other than an institution of higher education) that meets the requirements of
section 481(b)(3)(B)(i)” after “section 487”.

(d) Effective date; applicability.—The amendments made by this section shall
take effect on July 1, 2026, and shall apply with respect to award year
2026–2027 and each succeeding award year.

SEC. 30033.  Pell shortfall.

Section 401(b)(7)(A) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1070a(b)(7)(A)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1070a))
is amended—

(1) in clause (iii)—

(A) by striking “$2,170,000,000” and inserting “$5,351,000,000”; and

(B) by striking “and” at the end;

(2) in clause (iv)—

(A) by striking “$1,236,000,000” and inserting “$6,058,000,000”; and

(B) by striking “ and each succeeding fiscal year.” and inserting a semicolon;
and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

“(v) $3,743,000,000 for fiscal year 2028; and

“(vi) $1,236,000,000 for each succeeding fiscal year.”.

subtitle E—Accountability

SEC. 30041.  Agreements with institutions.

Section 454 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1087d](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1087d)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (a)—

(A) in paragraph (5), by striking “and” after the semicolon;

(B) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7); and

(C) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new paragraph:

“(6) provide annual reimbursements to the Secretary in accordance with the
requirements under subsection (d); and”; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

“(d) Reimbursement requirements.—

“(1) ANNUAL REIMBURSEMENTS REQUIRED.—Beginning in award year 2028–2029, each
institution of higher education participating in the direct student loan
program under this part shall, for qualifying student loans, remit to the
Secretary, at such time as the Secretary may specify, an annual reimbursement
for each student cohort of the institution, based on the non-repayment balance
of such cohort and calculated in accordance with paragraph (3).

“(2) STUDENT COHORTS.—

“(A) COHORTS ESTABLISHED.—For each institution of higher education
participating in the direct student loan program under this part, the
Secretary shall establish student cohorts, beginning with award year
2027–2028, as follows:

“(i) COMPLETING STUDENT COHORT.—For each program of study at such institution,
a student cohort comprised of all students who received Federal financial
assistance under this title and who completed such program during such award
year.

“(ii) UNDERGRADUATE NON-COMPLETING STUDENT COHORT.—For such institution, a
student cohort comprised of all students who received Federal financial
assistance under this title, who were enrolled in the institution during the
previous award year in a program of study leading to an undergraduate
credential, and who at the time the cohort is established—

“(I) have not completed such program of study; and

“(II) are not enrolled at the institution in any program of study leading to
an undergraduate credential.

“(iii) GRADUATE NON-COMPLETING STUDENT COHORT.—For each program of study
leading to a graduate credential at such institution, a student cohort
comprised of all students who received Federal financial assistance under this
title, who were enrolled in such program during the previous award year, and
who at the time the cohort is established—

“(I) have not completed such program of study; and

“(II) are not enrolled in such program.

“(B) QUALIFYING STUDENT LOAN.—For the purposes of this subsection, the term
‘qualifying student loan’ means a loan made under this part on or after July
1, 2027, that—

“(i) was made to a student included in a student cohort of an institution or
to a parent on behalf of such a student;

“(ii) except in the case of a loan described in clause (i) or (ii) of
subparagraph (C), is not included in any other student cohort of any
institution of higher education;

“(iii) is not in—

“(I) a medical or dental internship or residency forbearance described in
section 428(c)(3)(A)(i)(I), section 428B(a)(2), section 428H(a), or section
685.205(a)(3) of title 34, Code of Federal Regulations;

“(II) a graduate fellowship deferment described in section 455(f)(2)(A)(ii);

“(III) rehabilitation training program deferment described under section
455(f)(2)(A)(ii);

“(IV) an in-school deferment described under section 455(f)(2)(A)(i);

“(V) a cancer deferment described under section 455(f)(3);

“(VI) a military service deferment described under section 455(f)(2)(C); or

“(VII) a post-active duty student deferment described under section 493D; and

“(iv) is not in default.

“(C) SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES.—

“(i) MULTIPLE CREDENTIALS.—In the case of a student who completes two or more
programs of study during the same award year, each qualifying student loan of
the student shall be included in the student cohort for each of such program
of study for such award year.

“(ii) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN CONSOLIDATION LOANS.—A Federal Direct Consolidation
loan made under this title shall not be considered a qualifying student loan
for a student cohort for an award year if all of the loans included in such
consolidation loan are attributable to another student cohort.

“(iii) CONSOLIDATION AFTER INCLUSION IN A STUDENT COHORT.—If a qualifying
student loan is consolidated into a consolidation loan under this title after
such qualifying student loan has been included in a student cohort, the
percentage of the consolidation loan that was attributable to such student
cohort at the time of consolidation shall remain attributable to the student
cohort for the life of the consolidation loan.

“(3) CALCULATION OF REIMBURSEMENT.—

“(A) REIMBURSEMENT PAYMENT FORMULA.—For each student cohort of an institution
of higher education established under this subsection, the annual
reimbursement for such cohort shall be equal to—

“(i) the reimbursement percentage for the cohort, determined in accordance
with subparagraph (B); multiplied by

“(ii) the non-repayment balance for the cohort for the award year, determined
in accordance with subparagraph (C).

“(B) REIMBURSEMENT PERCENTAGE.—The reimbursement percentage of a student
cohort of an institution shall be determined by the Secretary when the cohort
is established, shall remain constant for the life of the student cohort, and
shall be determined as follows:

“(i) COMPLETING STUDENT COHORTS.—The reimbursement percentage of a completing
student cohort shall be equal to the percentage determined by—

“(I) subtracting from one the quotient of—

“(aa) the median value-added earnings of students who completed such program
of study in the most recent award year for which such earnings data is
available; divided by

“(bb) the median total price charged to students included in such cohort; and

“(II) multiplying the difference determined under subclause (I) by 100.

“(ii) SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES FOR COMPLETING STUDENT COHORTS.—

“(I) HIGH-RISK COHORTS.—Notwithstanding clause (i), if the median value-added
earnings of a completing student cohort under clause (i)(I)(aa) is negative,
the reimbursement percentage of the student cohort shall be 100 percent.

“(II) LOW-RISK COHORTS.—Notwithstanding clause (i), if the median value-added
earnings of a completing student cohort under clause (i)(I)(aa) exceeds the
median total price of such cohort under clause (i)(I)(bb), the reimbursement
percentage of the student cohort shall be 0 percent.

“(iii) NON-COMPLETING STUDENT COHORTS.—The reimbursement percentage of a non-
completing student cohort shall be determined based on the most recent data
available in the award year in which the cohort is established, and—

“(I) for an undergraduate non-completing student cohort, shall be equal to the
percentage of undergraduate students who received Federal financial assistance
under this title at such institution who—

“(aa) did not complete an undergraduate program of study at the institution
within 150 percent of the program length of such program; or

“(bb) only in the case of a two-year institution, did not, within 6 years
after first enrolling at the two-year institution, complete a program of study
at a four-year institution for which a bachelor’s degree (or substantially
similar credential) is awarded; and

“(II) for a graduate non-completing student cohort, shall be equal to the
percentage of students who received Federal financial assistance under this
title at the institution for the applicable graduate program of study and who
did not complete such program of study within 150 percent of the program
length.

“(C) NON-REPAYMENT LOAN BALANCE.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—For each award year, the Secretary shall determine the non-
repayment loan balance for such award year for each student cohort of an
institution of higher education by calculating the sum of—

“(I) for loans in such cohort, the difference between the total amount of
payments due from all borrowers on such loans during such year and the total
amount of payments made by all such borrowers on such loans during such year;
plus

“(II) the total amount of interest waived, paid, or otherwise not charged by
the Secretary during such year under the income-based repayment plan described
in section 455(q); plus

“(III) the total amount of principal and interest forgiven, cancelled, waived,
discharged, repaid, or otherwise reduced by the Secretary under any act during
such year that is not included in subclause (II) and was not discharged or
forgiven under section 437(a), 428J, or section 455(m).

“(ii) SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES.—For the purpose of calculating the non-repayment
loan balance of student cohorts under this paragraph, the Secretary shall—

“(I) for each qualifying student loan in a student cohort that is included in
another student cohort because the student who borrowed such loan completed
two or more programs of study during the same award year, the sum of the
amounts described in subclauses (I) through (III) of clause (i) for such
qualifying student loan shall be divided equally among each of the student
cohorts in which such loan is included; and

“(II) for each consolidation loan in a student cohort—

“(aa) determine the percentage of the outstanding principal balance of the
consolidation loan attributable to such student cohort—

“(AA) at the time of that loan was included in such cohort, in the case of a
loan consolidated before inclusion in such cohort; or

“(BB) at the time of consolidation, in the case of a loan consolidated after
inclusion in such cohort; and

“(bb) include in the calculations under clause (i) for such student cohort
only the percentage of the sum of the amounts described in subclauses (I)
through (III) of clause (i) for the consolidation loan for such year that is
equal to the percentage of the consolidation loan determined under item (aa).

“(D) TOTAL PRICE.—With respect to a student who received Federal financial
assistance under this title and who completes a program of study, the term
‘total price’ means the total amount, before Federal financial assistance
under this title was applied, a student was required to pay to complete the
program of study. A student’s total price shall be calculated by the Secretary
as the difference between—

“(i) the total amount of tuition and fees that were charged to such student
before the application of any Federal financial assistance provided under this
title; minus

“(ii) the total amount of grants and scholarships described in section 480(i)
awarded to such student from non-Federal sources for such program of study.

“(4) NOTIFICATION AND REMITTANCE.—Beginning with the first award year for
which reimbursements are required under this subsection, and for each
succeeding award year, the Secretary shall—

“(A) notify each institution of higher education of the amounts and due dates
of each annual reimbursement calculated under paragraph (3) for each student
cohort of the institution within 30 days of calculating such amounts; and

“(B) require the institution to remit such payments within 90 days of such
notification.

“(5) PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENTS.—

“(A) THREE-MONTH DELINQUENCY.—If an institution fails to remit to the
Secretary a reimbursement for a student cohort as required under this
subsection within 90 days of receiving notification from the Secretary in
accordance with paragraph (4), the institution shall pay to the Secretary, in
addition to such reimbursement, interest on such reimbursement payment, at a
rate that is the average rate applicable to the loans in such student cohort.

“(B) TWELVE-MONTH DELINQUENCY.—If an institution fails to remit to the
Secretary a reimbursement for a student cohort as required under this
subsection, plus interest owed in under subparagraph (A), within 12 months of
receiving notification from the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (4),
the institution shall be ineligible to make direct loans to any student
enrolled in the program of study for which the institution has failed to make
the reimbursement payments until such payment is made.

“(C) EIGHTEEN-MONTH DELINQUENCY.—If an institution fails to remit to the
Secretary a reimbursement for a student cohort as required under this
subsection, plus interest owed under subparagraph (A), within 18 months of
receiving notification from the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (4),
the institution shall be ineligible to make direct loans or award Federal Pell
Grants under section 401 to any student enrolled in the institution until such
payment is made.

“(D) TWO-YEAR DELINQUENCY.—If an institution fails to remit to the Secretary a
reimbursement for a student cohort as required under this subsection, plus
interest owed under subparagraph (A), within 2 years of receiving notification
from the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (4), the institution shall be
ineligible to participate in any program under this title for a period of not
less than 10 years.

“(6) RELIEF FOR VOLUNTARY CESSATION OF FEDERAL DIRECT LOANS FOR A PROGRAM OF
STUDY.—The Secretary shall, upon the request of an institution that
voluntarily ceases to make Federal Direct loans to students enrolled in a
specific program of study, reduce the amount of the annual reimbursement owed
by the institution for each student cohort associated with such program by 50
percent if the institution assures the Secretary that the institution will not
make Federal Direct loans to any student enrolled in such program of study (or
any substantially similar program of study, as determined by the Secretary)
for a period of not less than 10 award years, beginning with the first award
year that begins after the date on which the Secretary reduces such
reimbursement.

“(7) RESERVATION OF FUNDS FOR PROMISE GRANTS.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the Secretary shall reserve the funds remitted to the
Secretary as reimbursements in accordance with this subsection, and such funds
shall be made available to the Secretary only for the purpose of awarding
PROMISE grants in accordance with subpart 11 of part A of this title.”.

SEC. 30042. Campus-based aid programs.

(a) Promise grants.—Part A of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965
([20 U.S.C. 1070c et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1070c)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:

“subpart 11—Promoting Real Opportunities to Maximize Investments and Savings
in Education

“SEC. 420S.  Promise grants.

“For award year 2028–2029 and each succeeding award year, from reserved funds
remitted to the Secretary in accordance with section 454(d) and additional
funds made available under section 420V, as necessary, the Secretary shall
award PROMISE grants to eligible institutions to carry out the activities
described in section 420U(c). PROMISE grants awarded under this subpart shall
be awarded on a noncompetitive basis to each eligible institution that submits
a satisfactory application under section 420T for a 6-year period in an amount
that is determined in accordance with section 420U.

“SEC. 420T.  Eligible institutions; application.

“(a) Eligible institution.—To be eligible for a PROMISE grant under this
subpart, an institution shall—

“(1) be an institution of higher education under section 102, except that an
institution described in section 102(a)(1)(C) shall not be an eligible
institution under this subpart; and

“(2) meet the maximum total price guarantee requirements under subsection (c).

“(b) Application.—An eligible institution seeking a PROMISE grant under this
subpart (including a renewal of such a grant) shall submit to the Secretary an
application, at such time as the Secretary may require, containing the
information required under this subsection. Such application shall—

“(1) demonstrate that the institution—

“(A) meets the maximum total price guarantee requirements under subsection
(c); and

“(B) will continue to meet the maximum total price guarantee requirements for
each award year during the grant period with respect to students first
enrolling at the institution for each such award year;

“(2) describe how grant funds awarded under this subpart will be used by the
institution to carry out activities related to—

“(A) increasing postsecondary affordability, including—

“(i) the expansion and continuation of the maximum total price guarantee
requirements under subsection (c); and

“(ii) any other activities to be carried out by the institution to increase
postsecondary affordability and minimize the maximum total price for
completion paid by students receiving need-based student aid;

“(B) increasing postsecondary access, which may include—

“(i) the activities described in section 485E of this Act; and

“(ii) any other activities to be carried out by the institution to increase
postsecondary access and expand opportunities for low- and middle-income
students; and

“(C) increasing postsecondary student success, which may include—

“(i) activities to improve completion rates and reduce time to credential;

“(ii) activities to align programs of study with the needs of employers,
including with respect to in-demand industry sectors or occupations (as
defined in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ([29
U.S.C.
3102](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=29&section=3102)));
and

“(iii) any other activities to be carried out by the institution to increase
value-added earnings and postsecondary student success;

“(3) describe—

“(A) how the institution will evaluate the effectiveness of the institution’s
use of grant funds awarded under this subpart; and

“(B) how the institution will collect and disseminate information on promising
practices developed with the use of such grant funds; and

“(4) in the case of an institution that has previously received a grant under
this subpart, contain the evaluation required under paragraph (3) for each
previous grant.

“(c) Maximum total price guarantee requirements.—As a condition of eligibility
for a PROMISE grant under this subpart, an institution shall—

“(1) for each award year beginning after the date of enactment of this
subpart, not later than 1 year before the start of each such award year
(except that, for the first award year beginning after such date of enactment,
the institution shall meet these requirements as soon as practicable after
such date of enactment), determine the maximum total price for completion, in
accordance with subsection (e), for each program of study at the institution
applicable to students in each income category and student aid index category
(as determined by the Secretary) and publish such information on the
institution’s website and in the institution’s catalog, marketing materials,
or other official publications;

“(2) for the award year for which the institution is applying for a PROMISE
grant, and at least 1 award year preceding such award year, provide to each
student who first enrolls, or plans to enroll, in the institution during the
award year and who receives Federal financial aid under this title a maximum
total price guarantee, in accordance with this section, for the minimum
guarantee period applicable to the student; and

“(3) provide to the Secretary an assurance that the institution will continue
to meet each of the maximum total price guarantee requirements under this
subsection for students who first enroll, or plan to enroll, in the
institution during each award year included in the grant period.

“(d) Duration of minimum guarantee period.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—The minimum period during which a student shall be provided a
guarantee under subsection (c) with respect to the maximum total price for
completion of a program of study at an institution shall be the average, for
the 3 most recent award years for which data are available, of the median time
to credential of students who completed any undergraduate program of study at
the institution during each such award year, except that such minimum
guarantee period shall not be less than the program length of the program of
study in which the student is enrolled.

“(2) LIMITATION.—An institution shall not be required to provide a maximum
total price guarantee under subsection (c) to a student after the conclusion
of the 6-year period beginning on the first day on which the student enrolled
at such institution.

“(e) Determination of maximum total price for completion.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—For the purposes of subsection (c), an institution shall
determine, prior to the first award year in which a student enrolls at the
institution, the maximum total price that may be charged to the student for
completion of a program of study at the institution for the minimum guarantee
period applicable to a student, before application of any Federal Pell Grants
or other Federal financial aid under this title. Such a maximum total price
for completion shall be determined for students in each income category and
student aid index category (as determined by the Secretary). In determining
the maximum total price for completion to be charged to each such category of
students, the institution may consider the ability of a category of students
to pay tuition and fees, but may not include in such consideration any Federal
Pell Grants or other Federal financial aid awards that may be available to
such category of students under this title.

“(2) MULTIPLE MAXIMUM TOTAL PRICE GUARANTEES.—In the event that a student
receives more than 1 maximum total price guarantee because the student is
included in more than 1 category of students for which the institution
determines a maximum total price guarantee amount for the purposes of
subsection (c), the maximum total price guarantee applicable to such student
for the purposes of this section shall be equal to the lowest such guarantee
amount.

“SEC. 420U.  Grant amounts; flexible use of funds.

“(a) Grant amount formula.—

“(1) FORMULA.—Subject to subsection (b) and section 420V(b), the amount of a
PROMISE grant for an eligible institution for each year of the grant period
shall be calculated by the Secretary annually and shall be equal to the amount
determined by multiplying—

“(A) the lesser of—

“(i) the difference determined by subtracting one from the quotient of—

“(I) the average, for the 3 most recent award years for which data are
available, of the median value-added earnings for each such award year of
students who completed any program of study of the institution; divided by

“(II) the average, for the 3 most recent award years for which data are
available, of the maximum total price for completion determined under section
420T(e) applicable for each such award year to students enrolled in the
institution in any program of study who received financial aid under this
title; or

“(ii) the number two;

“(B) the average, for the 3 most recent award years for which data are
available, of the total dollar amount of Federal Pell Grants awarded to
students enrolled in the institution in each such award year; and

“(C) the average, for the 3 most recent award years for which data are
available, of the percentage of low-income students who received Federal
financial assistance under this title who were enrolled in the institution in
each such award year who—

“(i) completed a program of study at the institution within 100 percent of the
program length of such program; or

“(ii) only in the case of a two-year institution or a less than two-year
institution—

“(I) transfer to a four-year institution; and

“(II) within 4 years after first enrolling at the two-year or less than two-
year institution, complete a program of study at the four-year institution for
which a bachelor’s degree (or substantially similar credential) is awarded.

“(2) DEFINITION OF LOW-INCOME.—In this section, the term ‘low-income’, when
used with respect to a student, means that the student’s family income does
not exceed the maximum income in the lowest income category (as determined by
the Secretary).

“(b) Maximum grant amount.—Notwithstanding subsection (a), the maximum amount
an eligible institution may receive annually for a grant under this subpart
shall be the amount equal to—

“(1) the average, for the 3 most recent award years, of the number of students
enrolled in the institution in an award year who receive Federal financial aid
under this title; multiplied by

“(2) $5,000.

“(c) Flexible use of funds.—A PROMISE grant awarded under this subpart shall
be used by an eligible institution to—

“(1) carry out activities included in the institution’s application for such
grant related to postsecondary affordability, access, and student success;

“(2) evaluate the effectiveness of the activities carried out with such grant
in accordance with section 420T(b)(3)(A); and

“(3) collect and disseminate promising practices related to the activities
carried out with such grant, in accordance with section 420T(b)(3)(B).

“SEC. 420V.  Availability of funds.

“(a) Used of reserved funds.—

“(1) PRIMARY FUNDS.—To carry out this subpart, there shall be available to the
Secretary any funds remitted to the Secretary as reimbursements in accordance
with section 454(d) for any award year.

“(2) SECONDARY FUNDS.—Beginning award year 2028–2029, if the amounts made
available to the Secretary under paragraph (1) to carry out this subpart in
any award year are insufficient to fully fund the PROMISE grants awarded under
this subpart in such award year, there shall be available to the Secretary, in
addition to such amounts, any funds returned to the Secretary under section
484B in the previous award year.

“(b) Reduction of grant amount in case of insufficient funds.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—If the amounts made available to the Secretary under
subsection (a) to carry out this subpart for an award year are not sufficient
to provide grants to each eligible institution in the amount determined under
section 420U for such award year, the Secretary shall reduce each such grant
amount by the applicable percentage described in paragraph (2).

“(2) APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE.—The applicable percentage described in this
paragraph is the percentage determined by dividing—

“(A) the amounts made available under subsection (a) for the award year
described in paragraph (1); by

“(B) the total amount that would be necessary to provide grants to all
eligible institutions in the amounts determined under section 420U for such
award year.

“SEC. 420W.  Definitions.

“In this title:

“(1) VALUE-ADDED EARNINGS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—With respect to a student who received Federal financial aid
under this title and who completed a program of study offered by an
institution of higher education, the term ‘value-added earnings’ means—

“(i) the annual earnings of such student measured during the applicable
earnings measurement period for such program (as determined under subparagraph
(C)); minus

“(ii) in the case of a student who completed a program of study that awards—

“(I) an undergraduate credential, 150 percent of the poverty line applicable
to a single individual as determined under section 673(2) of the Community
Services Block Grant Act ([42 U.S.C.
9902(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=9902))
for such year; or

“(II) a graduate credential, 300 percent of the poverty line applicable to a
single individual as determined under section 673(2) of the Community Services
Block Grant Act ([42 U.S.C.
9902(2)](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=42&section=9902))
for such year.

“(B) GEOGRAPHIC ADJUSTMENT.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (ii), the Secretary shall use
the geographic location of the institution at which a student completed a
program of study to adjust the value-added earnings of the student calculated
under subparagraph (A) by dividing—

“(I) the difference between clauses (i) and (ii) of such subparagraph; by

“(II) the most recent regional price parity index of the Bureau of Economics
Analysis for the State or, as applicable, metropolitan area in which such
institution is located.

“(ii) EXCEPTION.—The value-added earnings of a student calculated under
subparagraph (A) shall not be adjusted based on geographic location in
accordance with clause (i) if such student attended principally through
distance education.

“(C) EARNINGS MEASUREMENT PERIOD.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—For the purpose of calculating the value-added earnings of a
student, except as provided in clause (ii), the annual earnings of a student
shall be measured—

“(I) in the case of a program of study that awards an undergraduate
certificate, post baccalaureate certificate, or graduate certificate, 1 year
after the student completes such program;

“(II) in the case of a program of study that awards an associate’s degree or
master’s degree, 2 years after the student completes such program; and

“(III) in the case of a program of study that awards a bachelor’s degree,
doctoral degree, or professional degree, 4 years after the student completes
such program.

“(ii) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary may, as the Secretary determines appropriate
based on the characteristics of a program of study, extend an earnings
measurement period described in clause (i) for a program of study that—

“(I) requires completion of an additional educational program (such as a
residency or fellowship) after completion of the program of study in order to
obtain licensure or board certification associated with the credential awarded
for such program of study; and

“(II) when combined with the program length of such additional educational
program for licensure or board certification, has a total program length that
exceeds the relevant earnings measurement period prescribed for such program
of study under clause (i),

except that in no case shall the annual earnings of a student be measured more
than 1 year after the student completes such additional educational program.

“(2) PROGRAM LENGTH.—The term ‘program length’ means the minimum amount of
time in weeks, months, or years that is specified in the catalog, marketing
materials, or other official publications of an institution of higher
education for a full-time student to complete the requirements for a specific
program of study.”.

(b) Institutional refunds.—Section 484B of the Higher Education Act of 1965
([20 U.S.C.
1091b](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1091b)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:

“(f) Reservation of funds for PROMISE grants.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the Secretary shall reserve the funds returned to the
Secretary under this section for 1 year after the return of such funds for the
purpose of awarding PROMISE grants in accordance with subpart 4 of part A of
this title.”.

subtitle F—Regulatory Relief

SEC. 30051.  Regulatory relief.

(a) 90/10 rule.—Section 487 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C.
1094](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1094)) is
amended—

(1) in subsection (a), by repealing paragraph (24); and

(2) by repealing subsection (d).

(b) Gainful employment.—The Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1001 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1001)) is
amended—

(1) in section 101(b)(1), by striking “gainful employment in”;

(2) in section 102—

(A) in subsection (b)(1)(A)(i), by striking “gainful employment in”; and

(B) in subsection (c)(1)(A), by striking “gainful employment in”; and

(3) in section 481(b)(1)(A)(i), by striking “gainful employment in”.

(c) Other repeals.—The following regulations (including any supplement or
revision to such regulations) are repealed and shall have no legal effect:

(1) CLOSED SCHOOL DISCHARGES.—Sections 674.33(g), 682.402(d), and 685.214 of
title 34, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to closed school discharges),
as added or amended by the final regulations published by the Department of
Education in the Federal Register on November 1, 2022 (87 Fed. Reg. 65904 et
seq.).

(2) BORROWER DEFENSE TO REPAYMENT.—Subpart D of part 685 of title 34, Code of
Federal Regulations (relating to borrower defense to repayment), as added or
amended by the final regulations published by the Department of Education in
the Federal Register on November 1, 2022 (87 Fed. Reg. 65904 et seq.).

(d) Effect of repeals.—Any regulations relating to closed school discharges or
borrower defense to repayment that took effect on July 1, 2020, are restored
and revived as such regulations were in effect on such date.

(e) Prohibition.—The Secretary of Education may not implement any rule,
regulation, policy, or executive action specified in this section (or a
substantially similar rule, regulation, policy, or executive action) unless
authority for such implementation is explicitly provided in an Act of
Congress.

subtitle G—Limitation on Authority

SEC. 30061.  Limitation on authority of the Secretary to propose or issue
regulations and executive actions.

Part G of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1088 et
seq.](http://uscode.house.gov/quicksearch/get.plx?title=20&section=1088)) is
amended by inserting after section 492 the following:

“SEC. 492A.  Limitation on authority of the Secretary to propose or issue
regulations and executive actions.

“(a) Draft regulations.—Beginning on the date of enactment of this section, a
draft regulation implementing this title (as described in section 492(b)(1))
that is determined by the Secretary to be economically significant shall be
subject to the following requirements (regardless of whether negotiated
rulemaking occurs):

“(1) The Secretary shall determine whether the draft regulation, if
implemented, would result in an increase in a subsidy cost.

“(2) If the Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that the draft regulation
would result in an increase in a subsidy cost, then the Secretary may not take
any further action with respect to such regulation.

“(b) Proposed or final regulations and executive actions.—Beginning on the
date of enactment of this section, the Secretary may not issue a proposed
rule, final regulation, or executive action implementing this title if the
Secretary determines that the rule, regulation, or executive action—

“(1) is economically significant; and

“(2) would result in an increase in a subsidy cost.

“(c) Relationship to other requirements.—The analyses required under
subsections (a) and (b) shall be in addition to any other cost analysis
required under law for a regulation implementing this title, including any
cost analysis that may be required pursuant to Executive Order 12866 (58 Fed.
Reg. 51735; relating to regulatory planning and review), Executive Order 13563
(76 Fed. Reg. 3821; relating to improving regulation and regulatory review),
or any related or successor orders.

“(d) Definition.—In this section, the term ‘economically significant’, when
used with respect to a draft, proposed, or final regulation or executive
action, means that the regulation or executive action is likely, as determined
by the Secretary—

“(1) to have an annual effect on the economy of $100,000,000 or more; or

“(2) to adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the
economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or
safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities.”.


